
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050057
B. Purpose for Submission:
Special 510(k) for a modification of sample stability claims
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Beckman Coulter Coulter® LH 750 Hematology Analyzer
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
The Coulter® LH 750 Hematology Analyzer is capable of providing a complete
blood cell analysis (CBC) including a differential leukocyte cell count. This
application is for the enumeration of leukocytes (WBC) and erythrocytes (RBC) in
body fluids.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description: The Coulter® LH 750 is a quantitative hematology analyzer
with complete blood count (CBC), leukocyte differential, reticulocyte analysis, and
nucleated RBC capability. It uses a reagent system consisting of isotonic diluent,
lytic reagents to lyse the red cells without significantly affecting the white cells and
an instrument cleaner. Additionally, the system includes reagents used for
reticulocyte staining and analysis.
2. Principles of Operation: The Coulter® LH 750 uses the Coulter Principle for
enumerating and sizing blood cells, automatic diluting and mixing for sample
processing and a single beam photometer for hemoglobinometry. It utilizes Coulter
VCS (volume, conductivity, and light scatter) technology for WBC differential
analysis and classification and reticulocyte analysis.
For body fluid analysis, specimen is aspirated into the LH 700 via the manual mode
and is diluted in separate WBC and RBC baths. The Coulter Method of counting
cells is used to detect and measure changes in electrical resistance when a cell passes
through a small aperture. The resistance generates an electrical pulse. The
accumulation of electrical pulses are channelized, processed for coincidence
correction, and multiplied by a calibration factor, yielding the WBC and RBC counts.
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Modes of Operation:
Manual mode.
4. Specimen Identification:
Bar code scanner or manual input
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Samples are manually mixed and handled
6. Calibration:
User calibration with whole blood and/or commercial calibration materials.
7. Quality Control:
Commercial quality control material is available for daily monitoring of the
instrument.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X____ or No________ The software was reviewed and cleared in a
previous submission for this instrument (K032342)
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5220
2. Classification:
II
3 Product code:
GKZ
4. Panel:
81
2

--- Page 3 ---
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The LH 750 Series Body Fluid Application is a procedure for obtaining in vitro
quantitative determinations of leukocytes (WBC) and erythrocytes (RBC) in
cerebrospinal fluid, serous fluids, and synovial fluid, using a Coulter LH 700
Series Hematology Analyzer.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Coulter LH 750 Body Fluids Application - K030606
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The LH 750 Series Body same
Fluid Application is a
procedure for obtaining
in vitro quantitative
determinations of
leukocytes (WBC) and
erythrocytes (RBC) in
cerebrospinal fluid,
serous fluids, and
synovial fluid, using a
Coulter LH 700 Series
Hematology Analyzer.
Reagent systems Coulter® LH 700 Series same
or Isoton 4 diluent,
Coulter Lyse S® III or
Lyse S® 4, Coulter
Clenz®, Coulter
Latron™ Primer and
Latron Control, Coulter
LH 700 Series Pak
Operating principle Coulter principle and same
Coulter VCS
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The LH 750 Series Body
Fluid Application is a
procedure for obtaining
in vitro quantitative
determinations of
leukocytes (WBC) and
erythrocytes (RBC) in
cerebrospinal fluid,
serous fluids, and
synovial fluid, using a
Coulter LH 700 Series
Hematology Analyzer.			same		
Reagent systems			Coulter® LH 700 Series
or Isoton 4 diluent,
Coulter Lyse S® III or
Lyse S® 4, Coulter
Clenz®, Coulter
Latron™ Primer and
Latron Control, Coulter
LH 700 Series Pak			same		
Operating principle			Coulter principle and
Coulter VCS			same		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample stability 8 hrs for synovial fluid 1 hr for synovial fluid
analysis and 8 hrs for and 24 hrs for serous
serous fluids fluids
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
c. Linearity:
d. Carryover:
e. Interfering Substances:
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
As required for a Special 510(k), the Sponsor has provided a risk analysis as well
as a Declaration of Conformity with Design Controls indicating that development
activities were conducted under appropriate design controls procedures, and the
overall product specifications were met.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample stability			8 hrs for synovial fluid
analysis and 8 hrs for
serous fluids			1 hr for synovial fluid
and 24 hrs for serous
fluids		

--- Page 5 ---
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
5