
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050682
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Analyte:
Urine Toxicology Control Material (Drug Mixture) for the following analytes:
Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Secobarbital, Amobarbital, Butalbital,
Phenobarbital, Phenobarbital, Nordazepam, α-hydroxyalprazolam,
Tetrahydrocannabinol, Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol, LSD, Methadone, Methaqualone,
Morphine-3-β-glucuronide, Codeine, Phencyclidine, Norpropoxyphene, Creatinine,
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA)
and Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA).
D. Type of Test:
Control Material
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.3280 Clinical toxicology control material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product Code:
DIF
4. Panel:
91
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control is intended for use as a quality control
urine to monitor the performance of laboratory urine toxicology confirmatory
procedures.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument Requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control is prepared from human urine with added drugs
of abuse and metabolites of drugs of abuse, preservatives, stabilizers and constituents
of animal origin. The control is provided in liquid form and at several levels that are
shown in the package insert. The control contains Amphetamine, Methamphetamine,
Secobarbital, Amobarbital, Butalbital, Phenobarbital, Phenobarbital, Nordazepam, α-
hydroxyalprazolam, Tetrahydrocannabinol, Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol, LSD,
Methadone, Methaqualone, Morphine-3-β-glucuronide, Codeine, Phencyclidine,
Norpropoxyphene, Creatinine, Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA),
Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) and Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine
(MDEA). Gravimetric reference values and GC analyses are listed in the package
insert.
The serum from each donor contributing urine for this product was tested by FDA
accepted methods and found non-reactive for Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg),
antibody to Hepatitis C (HCV) and antibody to HIV-1/HIV-2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
LiquiChek Urine Toxicology Control
2. Predicate K number(s):
k033404
3. Comparison with predicate:
This control material is similar in composition to the predicate device, except
that the new device contains MDMA, MDA and MDEA in control level 1.
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Device Name LiquiChek Urine Toxicology Control LiquiChek Urine
(Level 1) Toxicology (Level 1)
Intended Use Intended for use as a quality control Intended for use as a quality
urine to monitor the performance of control urine to monitor the
laboratory urine toxicology performance of laboratory
confirmatory procedures. urine toxicology
confirmatory procedures.
Matrix Urine Urine
Stability 30 days once opened 30 days once opened

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Device Name			LiquiChek Urine Toxicology Control
(Level 1)			LiquiChek Urine
Toxicology (Level 1)		
Intended Use			Intended for use as a quality control
urine to monitor the performance of
laboratory urine toxicology
confirmatory procedures.			Intended for use as a quality
control urine to monitor the
performance of laboratory
urine toxicology
confirmatory procedures.		
Matrix			Urine			Urine		
Stability			30 days once opened			30 days once opened		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Components Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Amphetamine,
Secobarbital, Amobarbital, Butalbital, Methamphetamine,
Phenobarbital, Phenobarbital, Secobarbital, Amobarbital,
Nordazepam, α-hydroxyalprazolam, Butalbital, Phenobarbital,
Tetrahydrocannabinol, Phenobarbital,
Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol, LSD, Nordazepam, α-
Methadone, Methaqualone, Morphine- hydroxyalprazolam,
3-β-glucuronide, Codeine, Tetrahydrocannabinol,
Phencyclidine, Norpropoxyphene, Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol,
Creatinine, LSD, Methadone,
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Methaqualone, Morphine-3-
(MDMA), β-glucuronide, Codeine,
Methylenedioxyamphetamine Phencyclidine,
(MDA) and Norpropoxyphene,
Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine Creatinine
(MDEA).
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None Referenced
L. Test Principle:
N/A. This 510(k) describes control material only.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
N/A
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Value assignment is based on the average from triplicate analysis of
control solutions at 3 reference laboratories using Gas
Chromatography. Approximate GC and gravimetric values are listed
in the package insert. The sponsor recommends that each laboratory
using Liquichek controls should use these results only as a reference
and should establish its own parameters for precision.
Open vial stability 2-8 °C was tested at 6 time points (1, 8, 14, 22, 29
and 36 days), the last of which (T ) extends to 20% longer than the
final
expiration date of the control. Recovery of the sample tested at the
last time point was compared, by GC/MS, to a freshly opened vial.
Acceptance criteria are that T must be within +/- 10% of the T
final zero
value.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Components			Amphetamine, Methamphetamine,
Secobarbital, Amobarbital, Butalbital,
Phenobarbital, Phenobarbital,
Nordazepam, α-hydroxyalprazolam,
Tetrahydrocannabinol,
Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol, LSD,
Methadone, Methaqualone, Morphine-
3-β-glucuronide, Codeine,
Phencyclidine, Norpropoxyphene,
Creatinine,
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
(MDMA),
Methylenedioxyamphetamine
(MDA) and
Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine
(MDEA).			Amphetamine,
Methamphetamine,
Secobarbital, Amobarbital,
Butalbital, Phenobarbital,
Phenobarbital,
Nordazepam, α-
hydroxyalprazolam,
Tetrahydrocannabinol,
Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol,
LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone, Morphine-3-
β-glucuronide, Codeine,
Phencyclidine,
Norpropoxyphene,
Creatinine		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
Closed stability was determined using an accelerated stability study
and the product was predicted to have a 4 year shelf life when stored
at 2-8 °C. The product was tested at three elevated temperatures and
the shelf stability was predicted using a stability model with
activation energy of 20-kCal/mole. Acceptance criteria are defined
as recovery values at each time point that are within +/- 10% of the
values determined for vials at the T .
zero
Real time closed vial stability are ongoing. Acceptance criteria are
defined as recovery values at each time point that are within +/-10%
of the values determined for vials stored at 2-8v °C or -20 °C.
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N/A
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.