
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k050113
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of CSF as sample matrix to previously cleared Tina-Quant® IgG Gen.2
application for measurement in human serum and plasma.
C. Measurand:
IgG
D. Type of Test:
Immunoturbidimetric, Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Tina-Quant® IgG Gen.2
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR§866.5510 Immunoglobulins A,G,M,D,E Immunological Test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
DEW IgG, Antigen, Antiserum, Control
4. Panel:
Immunology (82)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Immunoturbidimetric assay for the quantitative in vitro determination of IgG in
human serum, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) on Roche automated clinical
chemistry analyzers.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Measurement of IgG aids in the diagnosis of abnormal protein metabolism and the
body's lack of ability to resist infectious agents.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For Roche/Hitachi 904, 911, 912, 917, MODULAR P:

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
Tina-Quant® IgG Gen.2 consists of the following:
R1 TRIS* buffer: 20 mmol/L, pH 8.0; NaCl: 200 mmol/L; polyethylene
glycol: 3.6%; preservative and stabilizers.
R2 Anti-human IgG antibody (goat): dependent on titer; TRIS* buffer:
20 mmol/L, pH 8.0; NaCl: 150 mmol/L; preservative.
*TRIS = Tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane
Calibrators for the standard application include Preciset Serum Proteins or C.f.a.s.
Proteins; the calibrator for the sensitive application is C.f.a.s. PUC (Proteins in
Urine/CSF). These were cleared as k040264. The recommended control materials for
the standard application are Precinorm Protein and Precipath Protein; the
recommended control materials for the sensitive application are Precinorm PUC
(Proteins in Urine/CSF) and Precipath PUC. These were cleared as k041812. IgG
analyte values were added to these calibrators and controls and were assigned
k050026.
Calibrators and controls are sold separately.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring N Antisera to Human Immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM)
IgG assay on the BN II
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k943997
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Tina-Quant ® IgG Gen.2 Dade-Behring N Antisera
to Human
Immunoglobulins IgG on
BN II
Intended Use Immunoturbidimetric assay In vitro diagnostic reagents
for the quantitative in vitro for the quantitative
determination of IgG in determination of
human serum, plasma, and immunoglobulims (IgG,
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) IgA, and IgM) in human
on Roche automated serum as well as of IgG in
clinical chemistry human urine and
analyzers. cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
Traceability / CRM 470 CRM 470
Standardization
Sample Types Serum, plasma, CSF Serum, plasma, urine, CSF
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Calibrator Sensitive application (CSF): N Proteins Standard SL
C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for (human)
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Tina-Quant ® IgG Gen.2			Dade-Behring N Antisera
to Human
Immunoglobulins IgG on
BN II		
Intended Use			Immunoturbidimetric assay
for the quantitative in vitro
determination of IgG in
human serum, plasma, and
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
on Roche automated
clinical chemistry
analyzers.			In vitro diagnostic reagents
for the quantitative
determination of
immunoglobulims (IgG,
IgA, and IgM) in human
serum as well as of IgG in
human urine and
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)		
Traceability /
Standardization			CRM 470			CRM 470		
Sample Types			Serum, plasma, CSF			Serum, plasma, urine, CSF		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Calibrator			Sensitive application (CSF):
C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for			N Proteins Standard SL
(human)		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
automated systems) PUC
Instrument Roche/Hitachi family of BN Systems
analyzers
Expected values 10-30 mg/L Below 34 mg/L
Analytical Sensitivity 2 mg/L Established by lower
limit of reference curve
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
The immunoturbidimetric methodology utilized in this assay is the basis for the
already cleared TinaQuant IgG Gen.2 application for measurement in human serum
and plasma. During the reaction, anti-IgG antibodies react with antigen in the sample
to form an antigen-antibody complex. Following agglutination, the complex is
measured turbidimetrically. PEG is added to the reaction to allow the reaction to
progress rapidly to end point and improve sensitivity.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within-run precision: The within-run precision for the Sensitive (CSF) application
was determined by 21replicate determinations of two controls and two human CSF
samples on the Hitachi 917 analyzer.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			automated systems) PUC					
Instrument			Roche/Hitachi family of
analyzers			BN Systems		
Expected values			10-30 mg/L			Below 34 mg/L		
Analytical Sensitivity			2 mg/L			Established by lower
limit of reference curve		

--- Page 4 ---
The between-day precision for the Sensitive application was determined by
measuring one determination of two controls and two human CSF samples for
twenty-one days on the Hitachi 917 analyzer.
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
To determine the linear range, CSF samples are diluted with NaCl and
measured on the Hitachi 917 using the Tina-Quant IgG Gen2 Sensitive
Application (for CSF). Recovery is determined by comparison of the
measured value to the theoretical value. The theoretical values were calculated
according to the dilution factors. The acceptance criteria for linearity are
based on recovery; and are as follows: for values below 15 mg/L, recovery is
within ± 3 mg/dL. For values above 15 mg/L, the acceptance criterion is
recovery within ± 10% of the theoretical value.
5

--- Page 6 ---
The assay reportable range for the Tina-Quant IgG Gen2 Sensitive
Application (for CSF) is 2-200 mg/L. The linearity data support a linear range
from 0 to 330.4 mg/L.
In addition, linearity is also determined for the extended measuring range with
rerun which is 2-1000 mg/L. The extended measuring range is calculated
based on the ability of the instrument to perform rerun pipetting. Results
outside the measuring (reportable) range are reported to the user with a flag
warning that the value is outside the instrument's technical limit. Users can
select an automatic rerun with dilution, or manually dilute the sample with
0.9% NaCl and rerun, multiplying the results by an appropriate factor. This
function is the same as the already cleared serum and plasma applications.
6

--- Page 7 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The method has been standardized against CRM 470 (RPPHS, Reference
Preparation for Proteins in Human Serum).
d. Detection limit:
Twenty-one replicates of the zero calibrator (0.9% NaCl) were tested in each
of three independent runs on a Hitachi 917 analyzer using the Tina-Quant IgG
7

--- Page 8 ---
Gen2 Sensitive application (for CSF). The detection limit represents the
lowest measurable level that can be distinguished from zero. It is calculated as
the mean plus three standard deviations. The lower detection limit is 2 mg/L.
e. Analytical specificity:
i.) Endogenous interferences: The effect of hemoglobin and bilirubin
interference on the quantitation of IgG in CSF via the Tina-Quant IgG Gen
2 Sensitive Application was determined on the Hitachi 917 analyzer using
two native human CSF samples (with low and midrange IgG
concentrations) spiked with varying concentrations of interferent. In
separate experiments: hemoglobin, conjugated and unconjugated bilirubin
were tested). The resulting sample series were tested and recovery was
calculated by comparing the measured IgG concentration to the expected
IgG concentration (measured IgG concentration with no interferent
present). Significant interference was considered present if the %recovery
exceeded ± 10% of the expected value. The following results are obtained:
Icterus: No significant interference up to an I index of 60(approximate
conjugated and unconjugated bilirubin concentration: 60 mg/dL or 1026
µmol/L).
Hemolysis: No significant interference up to an H index of 800
(approximate hemoglobin concentration: 800 mg/dL or 497 µmol/L).
There is no cross-reaction between IgG and IgA or IgM for serum and
plasma. Cross-reactivity studies were not performed for CSF.
Carryover: The Tina-Quant IgG Gen 2 Sensitive Application (for CSF)
shows some carryover interference from IgG present in previously
measured serum samples. Carryover can be avoided by performing a wash
with NaOH prior to measurement of IgG in CSF. To characterize this
carryover effect, 15 µL of undiluted serum was tested on a Hitachi 917
analyzer using the Fe (iron) test reagent, immediately prior to 5
determinations of IgG in CSF using the Tina-Quant IgG Gen 2 Sensitive
Application. The CSF samples contained a low concentration of CSF. The
experiment was repeated; employing a 1N NaOH wash between the serum
iron and IgG CSF determinations. A significant carry-over effect was
considered present if the calculated values were greater than ± 15% of the
known value. The data show that the wash eliminates the carry-over
effect.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Fifty four (54) human CSF samples from multiple donors with concentrations
between 6.17 and 65.5 mg/L were used in a method comparison study
between Tina-Quant ® IgG Gen.2 Sensitive Application and the predicate
device, Dade-Behring N-Antisera to Human IgG on the BNII (X). The
expected range of values is 10- 30 mg/L. Samples were frozen at the site of
collection and sent to Roche GmbH for testing. Comparison of the IgG values
obtained with Tina-Quant ® IgG Gen.2 Sensitive Application (Y) to the
8

--- Page 9 ---
values obtained with the predicate device: Dade-Behring N-Antisera to
Human IgG on the BNII (X) are summarized below:
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
9

--- Page 10 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Reference values: 10–30 mg/L (66.7–200 nmol/L) were from literature citation.
[Reference: Reiber H, Thompson EJ, Grimsley G et al.
Quality Assurance for Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein Analysis:
International Consensus by an Internet-based Group Discussion.
Clin Chem Lab Med 2003; 41: 331-337.]
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10