
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050555
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the antibiotic cefazolin at concentrations of 2-32 ug/mL to the Gram
Positive ID/AST or AST only Phoenix™ panels
C. Measurand:
Cefazolin at 2-32 ug/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (Quantitative and Qualitative) colorimetric
oxidation-reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Cefazolin Gram Positive
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle
Antimicrobial
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is intended for
in vitro quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration of gram-negative aerobic and facultative anaerobic
bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae and non -
Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive bacteria belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus and Enterococcus.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
The BD Phoenix™ GP Panel: The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology
System is intended for the in vitro rapid identification (ID) of gram positive
bacteria from pure culture belonging to the genera Staphylococcus,
Enterococcus, other gram positive cocci and gram positive bacilli. The BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is also intended for the
quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most gram-positive bacteria isolates from
pure culture belonging to the genera Staphylococcus and Enterococcus.
2. Indication for use:
This submission is for the addition of the antibiotic cefazolin at concentrations
of 2 – 32 ug/mL to the Gram positive ID/AST or AST only Phoenix™ panels.
3. Special condition for use statement:
Prescription Use Only
For oxacillin susceptible staphylococci spp. only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for ID and AST
Indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth,
and equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST broth, which
contains an AST indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-
adjusted formulation of Mueller-Hinton broth containing 0.01% Tween 80. After
adding the indicator solution to the AST inoculum the color is blue and after
inoculation and incubation goes to pink to colorless as reduction in the panel well
proceeds. Inoculated panels are barcode scanned and loaded into the BD Phoenix™
Automated Microbiology System instrument where the panels are continuously
incubated at 35°C. The AST has a final inoculum of 5 x 105 CFU/ml. The
instrument incubates, reads and records the results of the biochemical substrates and
antimicrobial agents and interprets the reactions to give an ID of the isolate and MIC
value and category interpretation of the antimicrobial agents. Organisms growing in
the presence of a given antimicrobic agent reduce the indicator, signaling organism
growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent. Organisms killed or inhibited by a
given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the indicator and therefore do not
produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done using software driven
“EXPERT” System using rules derived from the CLSI standards.

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an ID result available between 2-12 hours
and an AST result available between 4-16 hours. This is only an autoread result;
there are no manual readings possible.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
VITEK® System
2. Predicate K number:
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro rapid same
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of gram-
positive bacteria.
Isolates Isolated colonies from culture used Isolated colonies from
culture used
Results Report results as minimum Report results as
inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum inhibitory
categorical interpretation (SIR) concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)
Incubation <16 hours <16 hours
conditions
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Inoculum Inoculum density equated to Inoculum density equated to
preparation 0.5 McFarland standard 1.0 McFarland standard
Reading algorithm Results are determined from Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of extrapolation of doubling
antimicrobial agents dilutions
Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox with detection using an
indicator (colorimetric attenuation of light
oxidation-reduction) to measured by an optical
detect organism growth. scanner.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S15) “Methods

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities													
	Item			Device								Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro rapid
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of gram-
positive bacteria.								same		
Isolates			Isolated colonies from culture used								Isolated colonies from
culture used		
Results			Report results as minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation (SIR)								Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)		
Incubation
conditions			<16 hours								<16 hours		
Differences													
	Item						Device			Predicate			
Inoculum
preparation						Inoculum density equated to
0.5 McFarland standard			Inoculum density equated to
1.0 McFarland standard				
Reading algorithm						Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of
antimicrobial agents			Results are determined from
extrapolation of doubling
dilutions				
Technology						Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox
indicator (colorimetric
oxidation-reduction) to
detect organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.				

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The system employs conventional, colorimetric, fluorogenic and chromogenic
substrates to identify the genus and species of the isolate. The AST portion of the BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth based microdilution method
that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-reduction) to enhance detection
of organism growth. The MIC is determined by comparing growth in wells
containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the growth in “growth control
wells” which contain no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Fourteen isolates were evaluated for site to site and inter site
reproducibility demonstrating >95% reproducibility. The ten isolate
study described in the guidance document was used (10 organisms
tested 3 times on 3 days at 3 sites).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
CLSI recommended Quality Control strains were tested at the
concentrations listed (see table below). The Phoenix results
demonstrate that the system can produce QC results in the
recommended range.
Organism Concentration Reference Phoenix™
results results
S. aureus < 2 252 249
ATCC 29213 4
Range 0.25- 8
1ug/mL 16
32 1
S. < 2 249 246
saprophyticus 4 3 1
ATCC 3552 8
Range < 4 16 1
ug/mL 32 2

[Table 1 on page 4]
Organism	Concentration	Reference
results	Phoenix™
results
			
S. aureus
ATCC 29213
Range 0.25-
1ug/mL	< 2	252	249
	4		
	8		
	16		
	32		1
			
S.
saprophyticus
ATCC 3552
Range < 4
ug/mL	< 2	249	246
	4	3	1
	8		
	16		1
	32		2
			

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
Inoculum density control: The organism suspension density of the
ID broth was equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard using the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of
testing. Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible
results. Five different instruments were used.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The CLSI recommended broth dilution reference panel was prepared
according to the CLSI recommendation and used to compare with
the Phoenix™ results. Clinical testing was performed at four sites.
The testing included both fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates
along with a challenge set with known results. Twelve hundred and
ten isolates were tested but the following table demonstrates the
performance of methicillin susceptible staphylococci only since the
Phoenix™ generated oxacillin result if resistant will generate a
resistant category for cefazolin as recommended by CLSI. The
testing of methicillin resistant staphylococci although not included in
the evaluation did demonstrate that resistance to cefazolin could be
detected but for methicillin resistant isolates the interpretation of
cefazolin is based on the oxacillin result.
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA CA #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA % N %
Clinical 569 566 99.5 3 1 33.3 567 99.6 0 1 1 0
Challenge 28 28 100 0 0 0 28 100 0 0 0 0
Combined 597 594 99.5 3 1 33.3 595 99.7 0 1 1 0
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
CA-Category Agreement vmj-very major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panels agree
with the reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling
dilution of the reference method. Category agreement (CA) is when
the BD Phoenix™ panel result interpretation agrees exactly with the
reference panel result interpretation.
The test device had a growth rate of >95%.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 5]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	CA
N	CA
%	#R	min	maj	vmj
Clinical	569	566	99.5	3	1	33.3	567	99.6	0	1	1	0
Challenge	28	28	100	0	0	0	28	100	0	0	0	0
Combined	597	594	99.5	3	1	33.3	595	99.7	0	1	1	0

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretive criteria = < 8 (S), 16 (I), > 32 (R) for Staphylococcus spp.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC are the same as
recommended by CLSI. All values will be included in the package insert
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.