
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050014
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the HemoNIR ™ instrument for the quantitative testing of
Lab
total hemoglobin, methemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
NIR Diagnostics, Inc.
HemoNIR ™
Lab
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative assay performed by oximeter
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
HemoNIR ™ is a small, portable, battery-powered system using rechargeable
Lab
batteries to measure Total Hemoglobin, Methemoglobin and Carboxyhemoglobin
using spectroscopic technology. The HemoNIR ™ user interface consists of a
Lab
sample tab receiver, three pushbutton keys, a graphic LCD display and an audible
beeper. The HemoNIR ™is comprised of the following elements:
Lab
• Tungsten lamp for illuminating the sample (wavelength range
approximately 450 nm to 850 nm)
• A spectrometer with linear diode array of photo-detectors for measuring
the amount of electro-magnetic radiation (EMR) transmitted through the
sample
• An electronic board which contains an amplifier, an analog-to-digital
converter and a microcontroller for processing the information received by
the photodetectors
• Disposable sample tabs and a sample slot in the unit for locating the
sample tab
• Primary calibration algorithms for each analyte in each device
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
Samples are introduced in to the HemoNIR ™ using disposable sample tabs.
Lab
The sample tab well is filled with sample and then inserted into the
HemoNIR ™ unit’s sample slot. The unit automatically starts-up and runs its
Lab
built-in self-test and then performs a measurement on the sample. The EMR
transmitted through the sample is received by the spectrometer/linear diode array
and is converted to an analog electronic signal. This signal is proportional to the
time that the detector integrates the optical signal. The electronic signal is
amplified by analog electronic amplifiers and converted to a digital signal by an
analog-to-digital converter.
A reference measurement is taken after a sample measurement, with the sample
tab removed, and this is used by the microcontroller to calculate the absorbance.
An absorbance calculation is made from the reading of sample and reference
light, sample and reference dark and their respective integration times. The
algorithm in the unit uses this absorbance to calculate the respective analyte
results.
3. Modes of Operation:
The measurement operation is random access.
4. Specimen Identification:
Samples are identified by a unique ID# plus time and date of measurement.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The HemoNIR ™ uses disposable, single-use, polypropylene sample tabs that
Lab
require no sample preparation or reagents. Samples collected in heparin or EDTA
is introduced into the HemoNIR ™ using the sample tabs. The blood sample
Lab
should be mixed by inverting or rolling it between the fingers (10-20 times)
before filling the sample tab well with approximately 10 µL of sample. The snap
press-fit cover is closed and it is then inserted into the sample tab receiver on the
front of the HemoNIR ™.
Lab
6. Calibration:
The HemoNIR ™ is factory calibrated and does not require any re-calibration
Lab
by the user.
7. Quality Control:
To verify that the HemoNIR ™ is operating within the specification, three QC
Lab
Optical Filter sample tabs (High, Medium and Low) are supplied with each
2

--- Page 3 ---
HemoNIR ™ unit with assigned values for Total Hemoglobin.
Lab
Additional external controls may be necessary to meet conformance with local,
state, and federal regulations or accreditation requirements for quality control.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
The HemoNIR ™ incorporates embedded software to control several functions
Lab
of device operation including user interface, self-diagnosis, configuration,
measurements and communication.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7500
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
GLY
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
HemoNIR ™ is intended for the in vitro diagnostic use by healthcare
Lab
professionals in quantitative testing of whole blood for total hemoglobin,
methemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
3

--- Page 4 ---
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
(a) OSM3 Hemoximeter (K853990)
(b) AVOXimeter 4000 (K951485)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
HemoNIR ™ OSM3 AVOXimeter
Lab
Hemoximeter 4000
Intended Use Quantitative Same plus other Same plus other
measurement of Total- parameters parameters
Hb, Met-Hb &
Carboxy-Hb
Sample Anticoagulated whole Same Same
blood
Sample preparation None Ultrasonic None
hemolyzation
Measurement Method Spectroscopic Same Same
Reagents No Yes No
QC materials Optical Aqueous Optical/aqueous
solutions solutions
Battery-Powered Yes No Yes
Differences
Item Device Predicate
HemoNIR ™ OSM3 AVOXimeter
Lab
Hemoximeter 4000
Number of Continuous 6 5
wavelengths
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities									
	Item			Device			Predicate		
Intended Use
Sample
Sample preparation
Measurement Method
Reagents
QC materials
Battery-Powered			HemoNIR ™
Lab
Quantitative
measurement of Total-
Hb, Met-Hb &
Carboxy-Hb
Anticoagulated whole
blood
None
Spectroscopic
No
Optical
Yes			OSM3
Hemoximeter
Same plus other
parameters
Same
Ultrasonic
hemolyzation
Same
Yes
Aqueous
solutions
No		AVOXimeter
4000
Same plus other
parameters
Same
None
Same
No
Optical/aqueous
solutions
Yes	

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences									
	Item			Device			Predicate		
Number of
wavelengths			HemoNIR ™
Lab
Continuous			OSM3
Hemoximeter
6		AVOXimeter
4000
5	

--- Page 5 ---
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was determined by comparing the results obtained from the
HemoNIR ™ with a predicate device, Radiometer Co-Oximeter OSM 3. In
Lab
an in-house, single-site study, untreated patient samples obtained from a local
hospital, and additional whole blood samples were treated with carbon
monoxide and sodium nitrite to obtain elevated levels of carboxyhemoglobin
and methemoglobin, respectively.
Treated samples: Blood samples from 6 normal adult males were treated and
aliquotted for a total of approximately 101 independent testing specimens.
For each day of testing, a blood sample was obtained from one person in 10
ml heparin or EDTA tubes. The blood was centrifuged and the plasma
removed. Met-Hb concentration was increased by reacting the Hb in 1 mL of
blood with 100 µL of 10g/L sodium nitrite in phosphate buffered saline
(PBS). Carboxy-Hb concentration was increased by reacting the Hb in about
2-4 mL of blood with carbon monoxide (CO) gas in a 10 mL Vacutainer: the
air space in the tube was filled with CO and the sample was placed on a rocker
for several minutes.
Untreated samples: A total of 144 samples, 68 male and 76 female adult
patients, were obtained from a local hospital with no traceablity to patients.
Samples included patients with renal diseases, sickle cell anemia and
thalassemia.
Linear regression analysis was performed for the combined untreated and
treated samples. The mean of the summary correlation statistics are as
follows:
Total Hemoglobin: slope = 1.013 and r = 0.980
Methemoglobin: slope = 0.999 and r = 0.996
Carboxyhemoglobin: slope = 0.986 and r = 0.982
An additional study method comparison study was conducted on whole blood
samples collected at Milton District Hospital Laboratory, Ontario, Canada.
Results from the HemoNIR ™ were compared to the Radiometer OSM 3
Lab
5

--- Page 6 ---
Hemoximeter.
In order to obtain the desired range of abnormal values, approximately half of
the whole blood samples were treated with sodium nitrate and carbon
monoxide to obtain elevated levels of methemoglobin and
carboxyhemoglobin, respectively. Treatment of the samples (as described
above) was performed at NIR Diagnostics and the treated samples transported
back to the hospital for testing by hospital laboratory personnel.
A total of 109 samples, 51 untreated and 58 treated samples, were tested in
parallel on two HemoNIR ™ units and one Radiometer OSM 3 unit within
Lab
approximately two minutes.
Linear regression analysis was performed for comparison of the
HemoNIR ™ and Radiometer OSM 3 methods. The mean of the summary
Lab
correlation statistics are as follows:
Total Hemoglobin: slope = 0.9925 and r = 0.935
Methemoglobin: slope = 1.035 and r = 0.997
Carboxyhemoglobin: slope = 1.014 and r = 0.985
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
A precision study for total hemoglobin was performed to assess the total
precision of the HemoNIR ™ by replicate measurements of quality control
Lab
materials. Three optical filters representing low, medium and high total
hemoglobin concentration levels were used as the quality control materials.
Precision studies were performed for 20 days on four HemoNIR ™ units.
Lab
Three replicate measurements were performed for each of the three optical
filters each day, morning and afternoon.
For each quality control material and each HemoNIR ™, the mean, standard
Lab
deviation and % coefficient of variation were calculated. Results
demonstrated acceptable measurement precision for total hemoglobin and
indicated no systematic error due to drift over the 20 testing days.
Additional precision studies were performed to assess the within-run precision
of the methemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin parameters on the
HemoNIR ™. Human whole blood samples were treated to obtain three
Lab
concentration levels of methemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin, respectively.
Replicate measurements (20) were run on the HemoNIR ™, for each
Lab
sample.
6

--- Page 7 ---
Total Hemoglobin: Mean and % CV for four instruments (average results)
High: Total-Hb = 199.7 g/L, % CV = 3.2
Medium: Total-Hb = 156.5 g/L, % CV = 1.8
High: Total-Hb = 101 g/L, % CV = 3.7
Mean and % CV for within-run precision of methemoglobin and
carboxyhemoglobin:
Methemoglobin Carboxyhemoglobin
Low Medium High Low Medium High
Mean 1.6 3.5 35.1 5.9 10.5 19.0
% CV 5.5 6.8 3.7 8.4 7.3 6.1
c. Linearity:
Linearity was evaluated by assaying a series of twelve samples, prepared from
the whole blood of a single donor that covered a wide range of concentrations.
All samples were tested in duplicate on four HemoNIR ™ units. Results
Lab
were displayed graphically and examined for linearity by visual inspection.
The HemoNIR ™ demonstrated linearity for the following ranges:
Lab
Total Hemoglobin 50-250 g/L
Methemoglobin 0-100 g/L; % Met-Hb is about 2-70% of Total-Hb
Carboxyhemoglobin 0-180 g/L or 0-100% of Total-Hb
d. Carryover:
Not applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
An interference study was performed to assess the effect of bilirubin,
hemolysis, turbidity (Intralipid) and methylene blue on the accuracy of
HemoNIR ™ measurements. A series of samples prepared from whole
Lab
blood, that included three concentrations of the respective interferent and a
baseline sample with no interferent were tested in duplicate on four
HemoNIR ™ units.
Lab
Results for samples containing interferents were evaluated relative to samples
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
	Methemoglobin			Carboxyhemoglobin		
	Low	Medium	High	Low	Medium	High
Mean	1.6	3.5	35.1	5.9	10.5	19.0
% CV	5.5	6.8	3.7	8.4	7.3	6.1

--- Page 8 ---
in which no interferent was present. The observed differences indicated that
there was no effect at interferent levels that would reasonably be expected to
occur in clinical situations.
Interference Summary Results: Total-Hb, Met-Hb and Carboxy-Hb
Interferent Level Effect
Bilirubin 60 mg/dl no effect
Hemolysis 2700 mg/dl no effect
Intralipid 200 mg/dl no effect
Methylene Blue 50 mg/dl no effect
“No effect” means the observed bias due to the interferent is less than 20% of
baseline. Not applicable to Met-Hb.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8

--- Page 9 ---
9