
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050644
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance to market an ELISA assay for human cardiac Troponin I
C. Measurand:
Troponin I
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative measurement of Troponin I via ELISA assay
E. Applicant:
Vancouver Biotech Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1215 Creatine phosphokinase/creatine kinase or isoenzymes test
system.
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MMI
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
(75) Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test is intended for the quantitative
determination of cardiac Troponin I in human serum. Measurement of Troponin I
values are useful in the evaluation of acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
2. Indication(s) for use:
The VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test is intended for the quantitative
determination of cardiac Troponin I in human serum. Measurement of Troponin I
values are useful in the evaluation of acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test is a quantitative enzyme immunoassay
that provides an assay for the quantitative measurement of Troponin I. The test
kit can be used together with other diagnostic methods to assess cardiac damage
caused by AMI.
The VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test is based on the principle of a solid phase
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The assay utilizes micro titer wells coated
with three monoclonal anti-TnI antibodies. The fourth monoclonal antibody is in
the antibody-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugate solution. The test sample is
allowed to react simultaneously with the four antibodies, and the troponin I
molecules are sandwiched between the immobilized and enzyme-linked
antibodies. Addition of a chromogen, which reacts with the horseradish
peroxidase, results in a color proportional to the concentration of Troponin I.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AxSYM Troponin I test
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K974103
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device – K050644 Predicate- K974103
Analyte Troponin I Troponin I
Antibody Murine Murine
Intended Use The evaluation of acute The evaluation of acute
myocardial infarction myocardial infarction
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Assay Design ELISA - a microtiter well MEIA - microparticle
enzyme immunoassay enzyme immunoassay
Number of binding 3 on the solid phase 1 on the microparticle
antibodies (well)
Peroxidase bound Murine Goat
conjugate antibody
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP15-A: User Demonstration of Performance for Precision and Accuracy;
Approved Guideline
CSLI EP17-A: Protocols for Determination of Limits of Detection and Limits of
Quantitation; Approved Guideline
L. Test Principle:
The VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA Test is a solid-phase, enzyme-linked
immunoassay. The assay utilizes four unique monoclonal antibodies directed against
distinct antigenic determinants on the troponin-I molecule. The three mouse anti-
troponin-I antibodies are used for solid phase immobilization, while the fourth
antibody is in the horseradish peroxidase conjugate solution. The patient sample is
allowed to react simultaneously with the four antibodies, resulting in the formation of
a “sandwich” between the solid-phase and the enzyme linked antibodies. The solid
phase is washed to remove unbound label and a substrate/chromogen solution is
added. The TnI concentration is proportionate to the intensity of the color
development which is measured spectrophotometrically.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device – K050644			Predicate- K974103	
Analyte			Troponin I			Troponin I		
Antibody			Murine			Murine		
Intended Use			The evaluation of acute
myocardial infarction			The evaluation of acute
myocardial infarction		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Assay Design			ELISA - a microtiter well
enzyme immunoassay			MEIA - microparticle
enzyme immunoassay		
Number of binding
antibodies			3 on the solid phase
(well)			1 on the microparticle		
Peroxidase bound
conjugate antibody			Murine			Goat		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Using procedures outlined in CLSI EP15-A, the intra-assay precision was
evaluated in patient serum samples that contained 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100
ng/mL Troponin I by running 20 replicates of each sample in one run. Percent
CVs ranged from approximately 4.87% near the cutoff to approximately
2.52% at 100 ng/ml Troponin I. In the same samples, the inter-assay
precision, (24 replicates of each sample over 24 runs) ranged from
approximately 7.20% to less than 1% CV.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity of the assay was established by comparison to the predicate device
and further evaluated experimentally following EP06-A: Evaluation of the
Linearity of Quantitative Analytical Methods; Approved Guideline. The
company measured 10 different known Troponin I concentrations spanning
the range of their assay. They measured each point in triplicate. Increasing
the order of their calibration fit did not change the agreement with the
predicate or evaluation of a clinical outcome. The reported range for the assay
was determined primarily by the limitations of the readout device, a
spectrophotometer. Saturation of the spectrophotometer determined the upper
concentration limit while statistical noise in the blank determined the lower
limit of the assay.
For Troponin I by VBL Serum Troponin I ELISA assay, the method has been
demonstrated to be linear from 0.5 ng/ml to 100 ng/ml.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Calibrators packaged with the assay are traceable to standards of calibrated
with purified Human Cardiac Troponin I.
d. Detection limit:
Following the methods outlined in CLSI EP17-A, the sponsor determined that
“zero plus 2 sigma” lower limit of detection for their assay was 0.27 ng/ml.
The sponsor is claiming a lower limit of detection of 0.5 ng/mL.
e. Analytical specificity:
The company demonstrated that their assay did cross-react with human
cardiac troponin T, human skeletal muscle troponin T, and human skeletal
muscle troponin I. The assay was free from interference at the following
levels:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Analyte Test Concentration
Rabbit skeletal muscle troponin C 2,500 ng/ml
Human cardiac troponin T 2,500 ng/ml
Human skeletal muscle troponin T 2,500 ng/ml
Human skeletal muscle troponin I 2,500 ng/ml
Hemoglobin 200 mg/ml
Biotin 200 ng/ml
Bilirubin 1 mg/ml
In addition, the assay was tested and shown to be free from interference at the
10 µg/ml level from the following materials:
nAnalyte (10 µg/ml Final Concentration)
Acetaminophen Digitonin
Acetylsalicyclic acid Digoxin
Adenine Dopamine
Albumin (bovine) Erythromycin
Alloprinol Gentistic Acid
Ambroxol Isoproterenol
Ampicillin Isosobide dinitrate
Ascorbic Acid Nifedipine
Atenolol Nystatin
Atropine Oxazepam
Caffiene Oxytetracycline
Captopril Propanolol
Chloramphenicol Theophiline
Cinnarizine L-Thyroxine
Cyclophosphamide Urea
Cyclosporine Uric Acid
Veraparmil
In addition, the assay was free from interference effects at the following
levels:
Analyte Concentration
Heparin 14 IU/mL
Warfarin 10 ug/mL
EDTA 18 mg/mL
Red Blood Cells < 100 per mL
Hemolysate < 0.05%
Total proteins 30mg/mL
f. Assay cut-off:
The clinical cut-off of 1.5ng/mL of Troponin I was determined based on
published literature and the clinical specificity and sensitivity analyses of a
clinical study (see below).
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Analyte	Test Concentration
Rabbit skeletal muscle troponin C	2,500 ng/ml
Human cardiac troponin T	2,500 ng/ml
Human skeletal muscle troponin T	2,500 ng/ml
Human skeletal muscle troponin I	2,500 ng/ml
Hemoglobin	200 mg/ml
Biotin	200 ng/ml
Bilirubin	1 mg/ml

[Table 2 on page 5]
Analyte (10 µg/ml Final Concentration)
Acetaminophen Digitonin
Acetylsalicyclic acid Digoxin
Adenine Dopamine
Albumin (bovine) Erythromycin
Alloprinol Gentistic Acid
Ambroxol Isoproterenol
Ampicillin Isosobide dinitrate
Ascorbic Acid Nifedipine
Atenolol Nystatin
Atropine Oxazepam
Caffiene Oxytetracycline
Captopril Propanolol
Chloramphenicol Theophiline
Cinnarizine L-Thyroxine
Cyclophosphamide Urea
Cyclosporine Uric Acid
Veraparmil

[Table 3 on page 5]
Analyte	Concentration
Heparin	14 IU/mL
Warfarin	10 ug/mL
EDTA	18 mg/mL
Red Blood Cells	< 100 per mL
Hemolysate	< 0.05%
Total proteins	30mg/mL

--- Page 6 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The sponsor conducted a statistical study comparing the submitted device to
the predicate using serum samples taken from patients admitted for emergency
care. The company used a total of 212 patient samples in their study. In a
concentration range spanning 0ng/ml to 71 ng/ml Troponin I, the proposed
assay yielded a linear correlation with the predicate of 0.9512, a slope of 1,
and an intercept of 0.034 ng/ml.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
In a clinical study of 212 patients, 110 of whom were clinically diagnosed as
having experienced an acute myocardial infarction, the assay demonstrated a
clinical sensitivity of 98% as compared to a WHO diagnosis.
b. Clinical specificity:
In a clinical study of 212 patients, 110 of whom were clinically diagnosed as
having experienced an acute myocardial infarction, the assay demonstrated a
clinical specificity of 98% as compared to a WHO diagnosis.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Serum levels of cardiac Troponin I are extremely low in normal, healthy
individuals. The sponsor states that more than 98% of the normal population had
Troponin I levels below the cutoff 91.5 ng/mL) of their assay. Serum
concentrations of 1.5 ng/ml Troponin I or higher, as measured by the VBL Serum
Troponin I ELISA Test, are indicative of an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
N. Proposed Labeling:
6

--- Page 7 ---
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
7