
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050076
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of ertapenem to the Vitek®2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST)
System
C. Measurand:
Ertapenem ≤0.5 – > 8 μg/ml
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative AST growth based detection
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITEK®2 Gram Positive Susceptibility Card
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle Antimicrobial
Susceptibility System
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VITEK®2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test is intended to be used
with the VITEK®2 System for the automated quantitative or qualitative
susceptibility testing of isolated colonies for most clinically significant aerobic
gram-negative bacilli, Staphylococcus spp., Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus
agalactiae, and S. pneumoniae.
1

--- Page 2 ---
The VITEK®2 Gram Positive Susceptibility Card is intended for use with the
VITEK®2 system in clinical laboratories as an in vitro test to determine the
susceptibility of Staphylococcus spp., Enterococcus spp. and S. agalactiae to
antimicrobial agents when used as instructed in the Online Product Information.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the antibiotic ertapenem at concentrations of
1, 2 and 4 ug/ml for a calling range of < 0.5 – > 8 ug/ml on the VITEK®2 Gram
Positive Susceptibility Card.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
Each VITEK®2 test card contains 64 microwells. A control well, that contains only
microbiological culture medium is resident on all cards, with the remaining wells
containing premeasured amounts of a specific antibiotic combined with culture medium.
A suspension of organism is made in 0.45-0.5% sterile saline from a pure culture and
standardized to a McFarland 0.5 standard using the DensiChek. The desired card(s) are
placed in the cassette along with an empty tube for the susceptibility card. The cassette is
placed in the VITEK®2 instrument where a susceptibility test will be automatically
diluted from the ID suspension by the VITEK®2. The cards are then automatically
vacuum filled; the tubes are cut and the cards sealed prior to proceeding to the Incubator
Loading Station. Cards are then transferred from the cassette into the carousel for
incubation (35.5o C) and optical scanning during testing. Readings are performed every
15 minutes.
In addition to the automatic dilution, there is also a manual inoculation dilution
procedure described in the package insert.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK®2 Gram Positive Susceptibility Card for Gatifloxacin
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k032314
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Determine antimicrobial Same
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents
Test Organism Gram Positive Cocci Same
Test Card VITEK®2 card format Same
with base broth
Instrument VITEK®2 System Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Antibiotic Ertapenem at specific Gatifloxacin at specific
concentrations concentrations
Reading algorithm Unique for ertapenem Unique for gatifloxacin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S15) “Methods for
Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
Optics systems use visible light to directly measure organism growth. These
transmittance optics are based on an initial light reading of a well before significant
growth has begun. Periodic light transmittance samplings of the same well measure
organism growth by how much light is prevented from going through the well. An
interpretive call is made between 4 and 16 hours for a “rapid” read but may be extended
to 18 hours in some instances. The VITEK®2 Susceptibility Card test is based on the
microdilution minimum inhibitory concentration technique with concentrations
equivalent to standard method concentrations. Several parameters based on the growth
characteristics observed are used to provide appropriate input for the MIC calculations.
Discriminate analysis is used to develop the algorithm that determines the susceptibility
result for all antimicrobials on the VITEK®2 system. The MIC result must be linked to
organism identification in order to determine a category interpretation. A category
interpretation will be reported along with a MIC.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Determine antimicrobial
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents			Same		
Test Organism			Gram Positive Cocci			Same		
Test Card			VITEK®2 card format
with base broth			Same		
Instrument			VITEK®2 System			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibiotic			Ertapenem at specific
concentrations			Gatifloxacin at specific
concentrations		
Reading algorithm			Unique for ertapenem			Unique for gatifloxacin		

--- Page 4 ---
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Ten gram-positive on-scale organisms were tested three times at three sites to
determine within site and site to site reproducibility demonstrating >95%
reproducibility. This testing was performed using both the manual dilution of
the inoculum and also the automatic dilution method.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The recommended QC isolates were tested on every test occasion with the
reference method and the VITEK®2. The reference method QC results were
in range for every day tested. The VITEK®2 was tested a sufficient number
of times to demonstrate that the system can produce QC results in the
recommended range.
Quality Control was performed during the studies using both the auto-dilution
and the manual method of diluting the organisms. Results demonstrated that
methods were comparable with the same mode.
Quality Control Table
ORGANISM VITEK®2 VITEK®2 VITEK®2 Reference R e ference
Conc. Auto Manual Conc.
(ug/mL) (ug/mL)
S. aureus ≤0.5 73 66 139
ATCC 29213
Expected Range:
0.06 – 0.25 μg/ml
E. faecalis ≥8 72 66 8 84
ATCC 29212 ≥16 54
Expected Range:
4 - 16 µg/ml
Inoculum density control was monitored using the DensiChek instrument.
This was standardized weekly with all results recorded and in the expected
range. Verification was performed during internal testing.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
ORGANISM	VITEK®2
Conc.
(ug/mL)	VITEK®2
Auto	VITEK®2
Manual	Reference
Conc.
(ug/mL)	R e ference
					
S. aureus	≤0.5	73	66		139
ATCC 29213					
Expected Range:					
0.06 – 0.25 μg/ml					
					
E. faecalis	≥8	72	66	8	84
ATCC 29212				≥16	54
Expected Range:					
4 - 16 µg/ml					

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A clinical study was conducted at three sites using the VITEK®2 gram
positive cards with ertapenem and the reference agar dilution method using
Mueller Hinton (MH) agar with and without 5% sheep blood prepared as
recommended by CLSI. Inoculum was prepared with direct colony
suspension. The testing included both fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates
along with a challenge set with known results. Two methods of inoculation
(manual and automated) were evaluated. Clinical testing was performed using
the automated method of inoculation and the challenge set was tested using
both the manual and the automated method. The test device had a growth rate
of >90%. All isolates grew in the VITEK®2 cards in less than 16 hours.
Since Oxacillin Resistant isolates drive the call for the group, only the
Oxacillin Sensitive isolates are evaluated. Essential agreement was not
calculated because the VITEK®2 card contained <5 dilutions of ertapenem.
A comparison was provided to the reference method with the following
agreement.
Summary Table for Staphylococcus spp.
CA CA CA % #R Min maj vmj
Tot N
Clinical 114 113 99.1 1 0 0 1
Challenge 42 42 100 0 0 0 0
Combined 156 155 99.4 1 0 0 1
Streptococcus agalactiae is presented in the table below because it has different
breakpoints than the Staphylococcus spp.
Also tested in the clinical study were 132 Methicillin Resistant S. aureus (MRSA). There
were no vmj in this category. MRSAs are automatically reported as Ertapenem resistant
regardless of MIC value but the ability of the VITEK®2 to detect resistance in this group
accurately demonstrates that the 1 vmj for MSSA would be an acceptable error rate.

[Table 1 on page 5]
	CA
Tot	CA
N	CA %	#R	Min	maj	vmj
Clinical	114	113	99.1	1	0	0	1
Challenge	42	42	100	0	0	0	0
Combined	156	155	99.4	1	0	0	1

--- Page 6 ---
Summary Table for Streptococcus agalactiae
CA Tot CA CA % #
N NS
Challenge 62 62 100 0
Only clinical isolates were tested for the S. agalactiae group. There are no errors
possible for this group since only susceptible breakpoints exists.
CA-Category Agreement maj-major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates vmj-very major discrepancies
NS – Not susceptible isolates min- minor discrepancies
CLSI’s recommendation is to repeat “not susceptible” results for beta hemolytic
streptococci.
CA is when the interpretation of the reference method agrees exactly with the
interpretation of the VITEK®2 results.
Manual Dilution:
The challenge set of organisms was also tested at one site using the manual method of
inoculation with the following performance that demonstrated that there was little or
no difference between the two inoculation methods.
CA CA CA % #
Tot N R
Challenge 43 43 100 0
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Staphylococcus spp. < 2 (S), 4 (I), ≥8 (R) (CLSI comment “For oxacillin resistant
staphylococci, report as resistant or do not report”)

[Table 1 on page 6]
	CA Tot	CA
N	CA %	#
NS
Challenge	62	62	100	0

[Table 2 on page 6]
	CA
Tot	CA
N	CA %	#
R
Challenge	43	43	100	0

--- Page 7 ---
Streptococcus agalactiae < 1 (CLSI comment: “The current absence of data in
resistant strains precludes defining any results other than Susceptible. Strains
yielding MIC results suggestive of a “nonsusceptible” category.” “Breakpoints are
for reporting against beta-hemolytic streptococci only.”)
The Interpretative criteria, QC isolates and the expected ranges are the same as
recommended by the CLSI and the FDA. All values will be included in the
package insert.
The ability of the VITEK®2 system to detect resistance to ertapenem in S.
agalactiae organisms is unknown because resistant organisms were not available
at the time of comparative testing.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.