
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050961
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Analyte:
Glycosylated Hemoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Control Material
E. Applicant:
Bionostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RNA1a Control for NycoCard HcA1c
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed).
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product Code:
JJX
4. Panel:
75, Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
RNA1a Control for NycoCard HcA1c is intended to be used to monitor and
evaluate the analytical performance of the Axis-Shield NycoCard HbA1c
reader for the measurement of glycosylated hemoglobin. The use of quality
control materials is indicated as an objective assessment of the precision of
methods and techniques in use and is an integral part of good laboratory
practice. The two levels of controls allow performance within the clinically
important range. For In Vitro Diagnostic Use.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only.
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Axis-Shield NycoCard HbA1c test system.
I. Device Description:
RNA1c Control is for the NycoCard HbA!c reader. The bi-level (abnormal and
normal) glycated bovine hemoglobin liquid control contains no human biological
material and does not require reconstitution. The control is supplied in two 1.5 mL
vials and contains beads, buffers, viscosity adjusters and stabilizers.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
The bovine blood sourced from US disease-free cattle and this product can be
provided with certificate of health from the USDA Veterinary Services.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Primus Liquid Control for GHb/A1c
2. Predicate K number(s):
k992921
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Intended to be used to For the control of
monitor and evaluate the quantitative glycated
analytical performance of hemoglobin assays.
the Axis-Shield NycoCard
HbA1c reader for the
measurement of
glycosylated hemoglobin.
Number of Levels 2 2
Analytes Glycated hemoglobin Glycated hemoglobin
(HbA1c) (HbA1c)
Open Vial Stability 30 days at 2-8 °C 30 days at 2-8 °C
Storage 2-8 °C 2-8 °C
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Closed Stability 12 months at 2-8 °C 9 months at 2-8 °C
Matrix Glycated bovine Lyophilised, prepared non-
hemoglobin in solution with diabetic hemolysate.
dyed polystyrene beads to Abnormal level prepared by
simulate total hemoglobin. controlled glycation.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Points to consider guidance document on assayed and unassayed quality control
material. US FDA, Feb 2 1999
Use of symbols on labels and in labeling of in vitro diagnostic devices intended for
professional use, US FDA, Nov 30, 2004.
ISO 13485:2003. Quality Systems: Medical Devices- particular requirements for the
application of ISO 9001
ISO 14971:2000. Medical Devices: Application of risk analysis to medical devices.
ISO 15223:2002. Medical Devices- Symbols to be used with medical devices labels,
labeling and information to be supplied.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Intended to be used to
monitor and evaluate the
analytical performance of
the Axis-Shield NycoCard
HbA1c reader for the
measurement of
glycosylated hemoglobin.			For the control of
quantitative glycated
hemoglobin assays.		
Number of Levels			2			2		
Analytes			Glycated hemoglobin
(HbA1c)			Glycated hemoglobin
(HbA1c)		
Open Vial Stability			30 days at 2-8 °C			30 days at 2-8 °C		
Storage			2-8 °C			2-8 °C		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Closed Stability			12 months at 2-8 °C			9 months at 2-8 °C		
Matrix			Glycated bovine
hemoglobin in solution with
dyed polystyrene beads to
simulate total hemoglobin.			Lyophilised, prepared non-
diabetic hemolysate.
Abnormal level prepared by
controlled glycation.		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
N/A
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Assigned ranges for the controls are based on replicate assays of
representative samples of the product on multiple instruments and
lots. Value assigned by this method were evaluated against replicate
assays of representative samples (10 tests for each control type) of
the product by participating laboratories using the Axis-Shield
NycoCard HbA1c reader. The acceptance criterion is a reading of
greater that 95% of values reported within assay limits for both the
product and the predicate device.
Stability
Closed vial stability was conducted and evaluated at -20 and 5 °C.
Evaluation to determine the change from the value at time zero to
show less that 10% change in HbA1c recovery over 12 months when
stored at -20 or 2-8 °C. The result for normal was 6% and for
abnormal was -5%.
Open vial stability was evaluated by testing percent change of
HbA1c in vials stored at 2-8 °C daily for 30 days. The percent
change in HbA1c over 30 days was -1.4% and +1.8% for normal and
abnormal lots respectively.
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N/A
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.