
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050037
B. Purpose for Submission:
Reagent formulation change – addition of one reagent (acetaminophen) to an existing
toxicology control.
C. Measurand:
Acetaminophen
D. Type of Test:
immuno-fluorescence
E. Applicant:
Biosite Incorporated
11030 Roselle Street
San Diego, CA 92121
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Triage® TOX Drug Screen Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.3280: Clinical toxicology control material
2. Classification:
Class I(reserved)
3. Product code:
DIF
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
(91) - Toxicology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Triage® TOX Drug Screen Controls are to be used with the Triage TOX
Drug Screen tests and Triage MeterPlus to assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls are to be used with the Triage TOX Drug
Screen tests and Triage MeterPlus to assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
This control is only intended for use with the Biosite Triage® family of meters.
I. Device Description:
The Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls are to be used with the Triage TOX Drug Screen
tests and Triage MeterPlus to assist the laboratory in monitoring test performance. This
toxicology control consists of drug and drug metabolites dissolved in preserved human
urine. The control is provided in 2 levels, analyte negative and analyte positive, to
facilitate verification of the outcome of Triage® MeterPlus tests.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K012999
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device(K050037) Predicate(K012999)
Analytes: Present Present
Amphetamines (AMP) Present Present
Methamphetamines (mAMP) Present Present
Barbiturates (BAR) Present Present
Benzodiazepines (BZO) Present Present
Cannabinoids (THC) Present Present
Cocaine (COC) Present Present
Opiates (OPI) Present Present
PCP (PCP) Present Present
Tricyclic Antidepressants Present Present
(TCA)
Differences
Item Device(K050037) Predicate(K012999)
Analyte Concentrations Approximately 2-4 times Approximately 1.75 times
device cutoff device cutoff
New Analyte Acetaminophen Not Present
Storage at user facility Storage at -20 °C at the Storage at -20 °C
back of the freezer
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
The product under submission is used to verify the performance of Biosite Triage
meters. The control is treated as a typical sample. Processing is done per instrument
instructions.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device(K050037)			Predicate(K012999)	
Analytes:			Present			Present		
Amphetamines (AMP)			Present			Present		
Methamphetamines (mAMP)			Present			Present		
Barbiturates (BAR)			Present			Present		
Benzodiazepines (BZO)			Present			Present		
Cannabinoids (THC)			Present			Present		
Cocaine (COC)			Present			Present		
Opiates (OPI)			Present			Present		
PCP (PCP)			Present			Present		
Tricyclic Antidepressants
(TCA)			Present			Present		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device(K050037)			Predicate(K012999)	
Analyte Concentrations			Approximately 2-4 times
device cutoff			Approximately 1.75 times
device cutoff		
New Analyte			Acetaminophen			Not Present		
Storage at user facility			Storage at -20 °C at the
back of the freezer			Storage at -20 °C		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
No Traceability is provided.
The predicate and pre-market devices serve as controls for specific Biosite
clinical equipment. The stability of the components is one of the primary
criteria for acceptance.
Stability is measured by:
Real-time studies of material stored at –20 ºC. There is no extrapolation
performed to determine expiration dating. The expiration date is based on
real-time closed vial stability data. Concentrations of the analytes in the
stored controls are determined by measurements with the Biosite Triage
meters. Currently, the expiration dating will reflect an 8 week shelf life. The
shelf life will be updated as necessary over time as the closed vial stability
study progresses.
The reported stability is within the error limits stated with the product. The
measured stability is consistent with the shelf life claimed on the product
insert.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The performance of these controls was verified by comparing them to the
existing controls on the required Biosite instrument. The assigned range for
these controls was based upon replicate assays of samples of the product on
multiple instruments and lots of measurement cassettes in accordance with
directions accompanying the Biosite meters.
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5