
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050500
B. Purpose for Submission:
Expansion of conditions under which the meter can be used including neonatal and
arterial blood over a glucose range of 20-600 mg/dL. Over the counter use was 510(k)
cleared in k992684.
C. Measurand:
Glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, Over-the-counter determination of glucose in whole blood.
E. Applicant:
TheraSense, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345: Glucose test system
21 CFR 862.1660: Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class II, Class I
3. Product code:
NBW, CGA, JJX
4. Panel:
(75) Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use for the quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary,
venous, arterial and neonatal whole blood samples. The FreeStyle 600 Blood
Glucose Monitoring System is for testing outside the body (in vitro diagnostic
use). The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for use in
1

--- Page 2 ---
the home and in professional settings to monitor blood glucose levels.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use for the quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary,
venous, arterial and neonatal whole blood samples. The FreeStyle 600 Blood
Glucose Monitoring System is for testing outside the body (in vitro diagnostic
use). The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for use in
the home and in professional settings to monitor blood glucose levels.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over the counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Test Strip, part of the FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose
Monitoring System, is only intended for use with the FreeStyle 600 Meter.
I. Device Description:
The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose System is an electrochemical biosensor
consisting of a glucose-oxidizing enzyme on a disposable test strip (the
electrochemical sensor) and a hand-held current measuring device. Software
internal to the hand-held device converts the measured current into glucose
concentration using an algorithm that depends on the ambient temperature and the
activity of the enzyme on the test strip. The user has the ability to validate the
operation of the system by using glucose control solutions provided with the
system.
The devices used well established biochemical, electrical, and software
methodologies. No new or unproven techniques are introduced with this device.
The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System comprises a glucose
reagent test strip, a handheld meter, three quality control solutions, and an
owner’s booklet. A lancing device, lancets, a quick reference guide for
performing the test, a logbook for recording test results, and a carry case are also
included with the system.
The capabilities of the on-market FreeStyle Blood Glucose Monitoring System
have been expanded, primarily through modification of the internal software, to
measure glucose ranges from 20 to 600 mg/dL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Freestyle Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k992684
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Glucose Glucose
Measurement Method Electrochemical Electrochemical
Tested material Whole Blood Whole Blood
Enzyme PQQ dependent glucose PQQ dependent glucose
dehydrogenase Dehydrogenase
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Recommended Sample Venous, capillary, arterial Venous or capillary
or neonatal whole blood whole blood
Measurement Range 20-600 mg/dL 20-500 mg/dL
Quality Control Material Low, Normal, High Normal
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry: In Vitro Diagnostic Glucose Test System
Available at:
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/glucose.pdf
ISO 15197: In vitro diagnostic test systems - Requirements for blood-glucose
monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus
L. Test Principle:
The FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose System is an electrochemical biosensor consisting
of a glucose-oxidizing enzyme on a disposable test strip (the electrochemical sensor)
and a hand-held current measuring device. Software internal to the hand-held device
converts the measured current into glucose concentration using an algorithm that
depends on the ambient temperature and the activity of the enzyme on the test strip.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of the system was confirmed using by performing multiple
measurements on different manufacturing lots of strips and different meters.
At a low glucose of 40 mg/dL, the system has a %CV of approximately 5% at
a Hematocrit of 45%. This %CV roughly doubles for a Hematocrit of 65% at
the same glucose concentrations. The precision of the system is better than 4%
CV for both Hematocrit levels at a glucose concentration of 90 mg/dL.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The company substantiated their equivalence claims with using a series of
detailed studies comparing the performance of their device both to the
predicate and a YSI glucose analyzer across the range of conditions claimed in
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			Glucose			Glucose		
Measurement Method			Electrochemical			Electrochemical		
Tested material			Whole Blood			Whole Blood		
Enzyme			PQQ dependent glucose
dehydrogenase			PQQ dependent glucose
Dehydrogenase		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Recommended Sample			Venous, capillary, arterial
or neonatal whole blood			Venous or capillary
whole blood		
Measurement Range			20-600 mg/dL			20-500 mg/dL		
Quality Control Material			Low, Normal, High			Normal		

--- Page 4 ---
their indications for use. In particular, the company verified the performance
of their system using high Hematocrit, high bilirubin samples over the entire
glucose range of 20 to 600 mg/dL. Glucose measurements were also shown
to be independent of temperature and anti-coagulants. Specifically, under
extreme conditions, 90% of the data were in zone A of the Clarke Error grid
and 10% of the results were in the B zone over the 20-600 mg/dL range of
glucose concentrations.
From the results, the FreeStyle strips give clinically relevant results even in
limiting conditions of hematocrit and temperature
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The company supplies glucose control solutions to validate the performance
of the meter. Control solutions are prepared gravimetrically. Stability is
assessed via accelerated and ongoing real-time aging studies where the
glucose concentrations are determined by measurement with the YSI glucose
meter. Stability is evaluated as difference in glucose ≤5% for the time period.
These measurements substantiate the claim of shelf life of 2 years if stored
between 35 – 86 °F (2 – 30 °C).
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
The company conducted extensive interference studies examining the impact
of EDTA, heparin, hematocrit, bilirubin, and temperature as part of the
linearity studies (see b)., above). On their product, the impact of these
interferences was minimal. Changes in measurement of the analyte, glucose,
were within acceptable error over the full range of the glucose studies, 20 –
600 mg/dL.
In addition, the company specifically examined the impact of anticoagulants
over a range of glucose concentrations. They did not observe a clinically
relevant impact on the analyte measurement in samples containing coagulant
concentrations up to four times those typically encountered in clinical
samples.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
To further substantiate their claim for neonatal use, the company performed a
clinical study in addition to their laboratory evaluation of high hematocrit,
high bilirubin blood. The company compared the performance of their
candidate device, the FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose Monitoring System, to a
laboratory reference method. Duplicate measurements using multiple lots of
strips lots were used to evaluated glucose in neonatal blood at one clinical site.
A total of 194 samples were used in this study. The device under submission
demonstrated a linear correlation with the laboratory reference with a slope of
1.04, intercept of -4.2 mg/dL and a correlation coefficient of 0.99. The
concentration of the samples ranged from 29 to 185 mg/dL.
To substantiate the claim for arterial blood, the company conducted a clinical
study to compare the device under submission, FreeStyle 600 Blood Glucose
Monitoring System, to a laboratory reference method. A YSI 2300 Plus
glucose analyzer served as the comparator. Investigators at two clinical sites
performed duplicate measurements of arterial blood using three different lots
of strips. Three hundred and one patients participated in the study. The
device under submission demonstrated a linear correlation with the laboratory
reference with a slope of 1.06, intercept of -5.0 mg/dL and a correlation
coefficient of 0.98.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The package insert states 70 to 110 mg/dL as the reference range for fasting
glucose for a non-diabetic adult. This range is based upon literature, Tietz
Textbook of Clinical Chemistry, 2nd Edition, W.B. Saunders, Philadelphia.
1994.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
5