
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k050747
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the antibiotic levofloxacin to the Phoenix™ SMIC/ID and SMIC Panels
C. Measurand:
Levofloxacin 0.25-16 ug/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (Quantitative and Qualitative) colorimetric
oxidation-reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Levofloxacin (strep) 0.25-16
ug/mL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle
Antimicrobial
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is intended for
in vitro quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC)of most gram-negative aerobic and facultative
anaerobic bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae and non -
Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive bacteria belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus, Enterococcus and Streptococcus.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
The BD Phoenix™ SMIC/ID and SMIC Panel is intended for the in vitro
rapid identification (ID) of bacteria from pure culture belonging to the genera
Streptococcus. The BD Phoenix™ SMIC/ID and SMIC panels are also
intended for the quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by
minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most bacteria isolates from pure
culture belonging to the genera Streptococcus when used with the BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the antibiotic levofloxacin at
concentrations of 0.25-16 ug/mL to the Phoenix™ SMIC/ID and SMIC
Panels.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for ID and AST-S
Indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and
equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™
Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST-S broth, which contains an
AST- S indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST-S broth is a non-blood, cation-
adjusted broth containing purified water, Tween 80, pancreatic digest of casein, peptones
and other additional supplements for optimization of streptococcal growth. After adding
the indicator solution to the AST- S inoculum the color is blue and after inoculation and
incubation goes to pink to colorless as reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated
panels are barcode scanned and loaded into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology
System instrument where the panels are continuously incubated at 35°C. The resulting
AST has a final inoculum of 5 x 105 CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and
records the results of the biochemical substrates and antimicrobial agents and interprets
the reactions to give an ID of the isolate and MIC value and category interpretation of the
antimicrobial agents. Organisms growing in the presence of a given antimicrobic agent
reduce the indicator, signaling organism growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent.
Organisms killed or inhibited by a given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the
indicator and therefore do not produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done
using software driven “EXPERT” System using rules derived from the Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI).

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an ID result available between 2-12 hours and
an AST result available between 4-16 hours. This is only an autoread result; there are no
manual readings possible.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® System
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro rapid same
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of most
bacteria.
Isolates Isolated colonies from culture used Isolated colonies from
culture used
Results Report results as minimum Report results as
inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum inhibitory
categorical interpretation (SIR) concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)
Incubation <16 hours <16 hours
conditions
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Inoculum Inoculum density equated to Inoculum density equated to
preparation 0.5 McFarland standard 1.0 McFarland standard
Reading algorithm Results are determined from Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of extrapolation of doubling
antimicrobial agents dilutions
Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox with detection using an
indicator (colorimetric attenuation of light
oxidation-reduction) to measured by an optical
detect organism growth. scanner.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S15) “Methods

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities													
	Item			Device								Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro rapid
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of most
bacteria.								same		
Isolates			Isolated colonies from culture used								Isolated colonies from
culture used		
Results			Report results as minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation (SIR)								Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)		
Incubation
conditions			<16 hours								<16 hours		
Differences													
	Item						Device			Predicate			
Inoculum
preparation						Inoculum density equated to
0.5 McFarland standard			Inoculum density equated to
1.0 McFarland standard				
Reading algorithm						Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of
antimicrobial agents			Results are determined from
extrapolation of doubling
dilutions				
Technology						Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox
indicator (colorimetric
oxidation-reduction) to
detect organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.				

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The system employs conventional, colorimetric, fluorogenic and chromogenic
substrates to identify the genus and species of the isolate. The AST portion of the BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth based microdilution method
that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-reduction) to enhance detection
of organism growth. The MIC is determined by comparing growth in wells
containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the growth in “growth control
wells” which contain no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Twenty eight isolates were evaluated for site to site and inter site
reproducibility demonstrating >95% reproducibility. The ten isolate
study described in the guidance document was used (10 organisms
tested 3 times on 3 days at 3 sites).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
CLSI recommended Quality Control strain was tested at the
concentrations listed (see table below). The Phoenix™ results
demonstrated that the system can produce QC results in the
recommended range. The modes for the reference method and the
Phoenix™ were the same.
Organism Concentration Reference Phoenix™
ug/mL results results
S. pneumoniae 0.5 6 41
ATCC 49619 1 118 79
Expected range 2 1 1
0.5-2 ug/mL 4
8
16
Inoculum density control: The organism suspension density of the
ID broth was equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard using the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of

[Table 1 on page 4]
Organism	Concentration
ug/mL	Reference
results	Phoenix™
results
			
S. pneumoniae
ATCC 49619
Expected range
0.5-2 ug/mL	0.5	6	41
	1	118	79
	2	1	1
	4		
	8		
	16		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
testing. Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible
results. Five different instruments were used. Additional testing
was performed on 5 streptococcal strains to demonstrate acceptable
performance for streptococcal species.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The CLSI recommended broth dilution reference panel with 2-5%
lysed horse blood was prepared according to the CLSI
recommendation and used to compare with the Phoenix™ results.
Clinical testing was performed at four sites. The testing included
both fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates along with a challenge
set with known results. The study included 1955 isolates tested with
the following performance. There is a slight trend for the Phoenix™
result to be more susceptible than the reference but still have very
good EA. This was also apparent in the QC test results.
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA CA #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA % N %
Clinical 1823 1777 97.5 1740 1707 98.1 1810 99.3 20 8 4 1
Challenge 132 131 99.2 121 120 99.2 132 100 8 0 0 0
Combined 1955 1908 97.6 1861 1827 98.2 1942 99.3 28 8 4 1
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
CA-Category Agreement vmj-very major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panels agree
with the reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling
dilution of the reference method. Category agreement (CA) is when
the BD Phoenix™ panel result interpretation agrees exactly with the
reference panel result interpretation. Evaluable (Eval) is when the
results are on scale.
The test device had a growth rate of >95%.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 5]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	CA
N	CA
%	#R	min	maj	vmj
Clinical	1823	1777	97.5	1740	1707	98.1	1810	99.3	20	8	4	1
Challenge	132	131	99.2	121	120	99.2	132	100	8	0	0	0
Combined	1955	1908	97.6	1861	1827	98.2	1942	99.3	28	8	4	1

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
S. pneumoniae and other Streptococcus spp.
Interpretive criteria = < 2 (S), 4 (I), > 8 (R)
N. Proposed Labeling:
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC are the same as
recommended by FDA and CLSI. All values will be included in the package
insert
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.