
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050062
B. Purpose for Submission:
Premarket notification to add gemifloxacin to the BBL Sensi-Disc product line
C. Measurand:
Gemifloxacin 5µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
E. Applicant:
Becton Dickinson and Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Gemifloxacin 5µg, BBL Sensi-Disc Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disks
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1620 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JTN- Susceptibility Test Disc, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
These discs are used for semi-quantitative in vitro susceptibility testing by the
agar disc diffusion test procedure of common, rapidly growing and certain
fastidious bacterial pathogens. These include the Enterobacteriaceae,
Staphylococcus spp., Pseudomonas spp., Acinetobacter spp., Enterococcus spp.,
Vibrio cholerae and, by modified procedures, Haemophilus infuenzae, Neisseria
gonorrhoeae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and other streptococci.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Use of Gemifoxacin 5µg, BBL Sensi-Disc for in vitro agar diffusion susceptibility
testing is indicated when there is a need to determine the susceptibility of bacteria
to gemifloxacin. 5µg has been shown to be active in vitro against most strains of
microorganisms listed below, as described in the FDA approved drug insert for
this antimicrobic.
Active In Vitro and in clinical infections against:
Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug resistant strains)
Haemophilus influenzae
Haemophilus parainfluenzae
Klebsiella pneumoniae (many strains are only moderately susceptible)
Active In Vitro against:
Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible strains only)
Streptococcus pyogenes
Acinetobacter lwoffi
Klebsiella oxytoca
Proteus vulgaris
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Gemifloxacin exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations of 0.25 µg/mL
or less against most (> 90%) strains of the following microorganisms; however,
the safety and effectiveness of gemifloxacin in treating clinical infections due to
these microorganisms has not been established in adequate and well controlled
clinical trials: Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible strains only),
Streptococcus pyogenes, Acinetobacter lwoffi, Klebsiella oxytoca, Proteus
vulgaris.
For Streptococcus pneumoniae, use Mueller-Hinton Agar with 5% Sheep Blood.
For Haemophilus influenzae use Haemophilus Test Medium Agar.
For Prescription Use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
2

--- Page 3 ---
None
I. Device Description:
Gemifloxacin 5µg BBL Sensi-Disc is prepared by impregnating high quality paper
with accurately determined amounts of gemifloxacin supplied by the drug
manufacturer. Each gemifloxacin disk is clearly marked on both sides with the agent
(GEM) and drug content (5 µg). Gemifoxacin cartridges each contain 50
impregnated disks that are paced as either a single cartridge in a single box, or in a
package containing ten cartridges. Gemifloxacin disks are used for semi-quantitative
in vitro susceptibility evaluations by the agar diffusion test method.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Ciprofloxacin 5µg, BBL Sensi-Disc
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K874425
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use an in vitro diagnostic same
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
gram positive organisms.
Inoculum Pure cultures of bacterial same
isolates
Inoculation method Direct equated to a 0.5 same
McFarland
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Antibiotic Gemifloxacin Ciprofloxacin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The Center for Drug Evaluation and Review (CDER) pharmaceutical approved
package insert, developed during clinical trial studies, was used for Interpretive
Criteria and QC expected Ranges.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			an in vitro diagnostic
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
gram positive organisms.			same		
Inoculum			Pure cultures of bacterial
isolates			same		
Inoculation method			Direct equated to a 0.5
McFarland			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibiotic			Gemifloxacin			Ciprofloxacin		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
Disks containing a wide variety of antimicrobial agents are applied to the surface of
Mueller Hinton Agar plates (or Haemophilus Test Medium Agar for Haemophilus
influenzae or Mueller Hinton Agar with 5% Sheep Blood for Streptococcus species)
inoculated with pure cultures of clinical isolates (Bauer-Kirby method). Following
incubation, the plates are examined and the zones of inhibition surrounding the disks
are measured and compared with established zone size ranges for individual
antimicrobial agents in order to determine the agent(s) most suitable for use in
antimicrobial therapy. The categorical interpretation [susceptible (S), intermediate
(I), or resistant (R)] for the organism being tested with the antimicrobial agent is
made by comparing zone diameters to those found in the respective organism tables
of NCCLS Document M2 (“Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk
Susceptibility Tests) and of NCCLS Document M100 (“Performance Standards for
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing”).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
(Descriptive characteristics were sufficient for this disc, because the drug studies,
evaluated by CDER, generated the Interpretive Criteria and QC expected Ranges used for
review of this device.)
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable (N/A)
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
N/A
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
4

--- Page 5 ---
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Enterobacteriaceae > 20 (S), 16-19 (I), < 15 (R)
Streptococcus pneumoniae > 23 (S), 20-22 (I), < 19 (R)
Haemophilus spp. > 18 (S)
The Interpretative criteria in the manufacturer’s instructions for use are the same
as recommended by the FDA/CDER in the approved pharmaceutical package
insert. The manufacturer’s QC isolates and ranges also match the approved
pharmaceutical package insert but also include QC ranges for P. aeruginosa or S.
aureus that are absent from the pharmaceutical package insert but match what is
recommended by NCCLS. All values will be included in the device package
insert.
5

--- Page 6 ---
For some organism/antimicrobial combinations, the absence of data on resistant
strains precludes defining any results other than “Susceptible”. Strains yielding
MIC results suggestive of a “non-susceptible” category should be submitted to a
reference laboratory for further testing.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6