
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050002
B. Purpose for Submission:
To introduce a smaller version of the VITEK® 2 with new software
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
bioMerieux, Inc. – VITEK®2 Compact
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
In vitro diagnostic test software used for identification and antimicrobial
susceptibility testing of organisms
E. System Descriptions:
1. Devise Description:
The VITEK® 2 Compact System is dedicated to the identification of bacteria and
yeasts and susceptibility testing of clinically significant bacteria using the
VITEK® 2 Product line of cards. The system includes the VITEK® 2 Compact
instrument, a computer (workstation) and printer. The system software is a
component used to support the VITEK®2 Compact instrument and runs in a PC
environment. The system includes an Advanced Expert System (AES) for clinical
use, provides therapeutic guidance for advanced analysis of results and the
detection of phenotypes. The user documentation available with the workstation
software is in Adobe PDF format (Software User Manual and the Online Product
information open in PDF format). The system allows the user to manage and
enter patient and specimen information; interpret organism identification from
biochemical test results using a set of claimed organisms/reactions; manage
Quality Control (QC); view and modify configuration parameters; and create new
AST card definitions, search audit history and archive reports. A bidirectional
computer interface transfers results automatically to the user’s laboratory
information system (LIS) and to various product and patient reports.
2. Principles of Operation:
The system software is a component used to support the VITEK®2 Compact
instrument and runs in a PC environment. Transmittance Optics uses visible light
1

--- Page 2 ---
to directly measure organism growth. The optics use light emitting diodes
(LEDs) which produce light at the appropriate wavelengths and silicon
photodetectors to capture the transmitted light.
3. Modes of Operation:
Automated reading of growth based AST cards in cassettes. Each card is
transferred from the cassette to a card loader to place into a slot on a carousel
where it remains throughout its incubation. Each carousel has a capacity of 30 to
60 cards and is kept at a temperature of 35.5o C. As the carousel rotates each test
card moves into the reading position every 15 minutes. At the completion of the
reading the card is ejected into the waste collection station.
4. Specimen Identification:
Patient information may be entered manually or downloaded from a data
management system. The instrument reads the bar code information from the
cards and cassettes and automatically sends the information to the system
software.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Isolated colonies are inoculated into saline and then the density adjusted to a
McFarland standard using a VITEK®2 DENSICHECK. Specimens are
inoculated into test cards which are placed in a cassette.
6. Calibration:
Self calibrating.
7. Quality Control:
QC isolates are tested according to the type of panel used. Expected ranges are
listed for each antibiotic and organism.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes_____X___ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
2

--- Page 3 ---
866.1645
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The VITEK® 2 Compact System is intended to be used for the automated
quantitative or qualitative susceptibility testing of isolated colonies for most
clinically significant aerobic gram-negative bacilli, Staphylococcus spp.,
Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus agalactiae and S. pneumoniae.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use.
For testing the VITEK® 2 Systems Products
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
VITEK® 2 System N50510/S82
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The VITEK® 2 Compact The VITEK® 2 is
is intended to be used for intended to be used for
the automated quantitative the automated
or qualitative quantitative or qualitative
susceptibility testing of susceptibility testing of
isolated colonies for most isolated colonies for most
clinically significant clinically significant
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The VITEK® 2 Compact
is intended to be used for
the automated quantitative
or qualitative
susceptibility testing of
isolated colonies for most
clinically significant			The VITEK® 2 is
intended to be used for
the automated
quantitative or qualitative
susceptibility testing of
isolated colonies for most
clinically significant		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
aerobic gram-negative aerobic gram-negative
bacilli, Staphylococcus bacilli, Staphylococcus
spp., Enterococcus spp., spp., Enterococcus spp.,
Streptococcus agalactiae Streptococcus agalactiae
and S. pneumoniae. and S. pneumoniae.
Test Cards 64 well card with same
antibiotics in varying
concentrations dried with a
microbiological medium
AST CARD inoculum Isolated colonies prepared same
with a DENSICHECK
densitometer
Filling and Sealer Vacuum filled and same
process automated heat seal
Incubation and reading Automated, 35.5oC +/- 1o same
with automated readings
every 15 minutes with 660
nm optics
AST analysis Analysis of changes in same
growth based turbidity
Advanced Expert Yes Yes
System
Waste Automated removal of Automated removal of
ejected test cards to waste ejected test cards to waste
container at end of cycle container at end of cycle
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Instrument Capacity 30-60 cards 60-120 cards
Computer HP/Compaq Windows IBM AIX Workstation
XP Pro PC with Pentium with RISC6000
4 processor processor
Test set up Visual Smart Carrier Test Smart Carrier Test setup
setup at Workstation programmed onto
downloaded to instrument embedded programmable
chip in card cassette then
downloaded to
instrument
Cassette 10 cards/cassette 15 cards/cassette
AST dilution Manual dilution only Automated or manual
preparation step and with two step filling dilution with automated
filling process process filling process with
automated timing control
QC Results Provides a side-by-side No comparison of
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			aerobic gram-negative
bacilli, Staphylococcus
spp., Enterococcus spp.,
Streptococcus agalactiae
and S. pneumoniae.			aerobic gram-negative
bacilli, Staphylococcus
spp., Enterococcus spp.,
Streptococcus agalactiae
and S. pneumoniae.		
Test Cards			64 well card with
antibiotics in varying
concentrations dried with a
microbiological medium			same		
AST CARD inoculum			Isolated colonies prepared
with a DENSICHECK
densitometer			same		
Filling and Sealer
process			Vacuum filled and
automated heat seal			same		
Incubation and reading			Automated, 35.5oC +/- 1o
with automated readings
every 15 minutes with 660
nm optics			same		
AST analysis			Analysis of changes in
growth based turbidity			same		
Advanced Expert
System			Yes			Yes		
Waste			Automated removal of
ejected test cards to waste
container at end of cycle			Automated removal of
ejected test cards to waste
container at end of cycle		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Instrument Capacity			30-60 cards			60-120 cards		
Computer			HP/Compaq Windows
XP Pro PC with Pentium
4 processor			IBM AIX Workstation
with RISC6000
processor		
Test set up			Visual Smart Carrier Test
setup at Workstation
downloaded to instrument			Smart Carrier Test setup
programmed onto
embedded programmable
chip in card cassette then
downloaded to
instrument		
Cassette			10 cards/cassette			15 cards/cassette		
AST dilution
preparation step and
filling process			Manual dilution only
with two step filling
process			Automated or manual
dilution with automated
filling process with
automated timing control		
QC Results			Provides a side-by-side			No comparison of		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
comparison of expected expected results versus
versus actual QC results actual QC results.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S15) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard”; “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for
Software Contained in Medical Devices”.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
A challenge phase of testing was performed to confirm the agreement in
results over a broad range of organisms using the AST test cards. Each
organism was inoculated into 2 cards to be tested on each system at each of
three sites. Overall agreement performance was >95% for gram negative
organisms (n = 8,002 results) gram positive organisms (n=6480 results) and
Streptococcus pneumoniae (n =1, 215 results). Quality control isolates were
also tested a sufficient number of times on each instrument with results in the
expected range in the criterion set up for the study that there would be no
decrease of more than 2.5% in the rate of results falling within range from the
VITEK® 2 to the VITEK® 2 Compact. Studies were performed to
demonstrate that AST results are essentially equivalent when using either the
VITEK® 2 or the VITEK® 2 Compact. The primary difference between the
two systems is the test disposable filling and sealing process and this was
demonstrated to have no significant impact on product performance.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
A study was performed to provide the best comparison for the two systems for
accuracy and precision. For accuracy the medians should agree within +/- 1
doubling dilution at a rate greater than 95% and for precision the rate of
results falling within plus or minus one 2-fold serial dilution of the median of
the VITEK® 2 Compact to be within 2.5% of the rate of results falling within
plus or minus one 2-fold serial dilution of the VITEK® 2. These were met
with no obvious suggestion of trending of an instrument bias in one direction.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			comparison of expected
versus actual QC results			expected results versus
actual QC results.		

--- Page 6 ---
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Not Applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not Applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Not Applicable
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6