
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050016
B. Purpose for Submission:
Software update and instrument name change
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
International Technidyne Corporation (ITC), HEMOCHON® Signature Elite™
Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative coagulation tests (ACT, APTT, PT) using mechanical-optical clot
detection
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
is a battery operated hand-held instrument. The system is intended for use in
clinical settings requiring point of care testing. Whole blood test results are
displayed as clotting times (in seconds). The instrument also displays correlated
Celite® equivalent ACT values, APTT and PT plasma equivalent values, and the
PT INR value.
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
contains a test chamber which warms a test cuvette to the required temperature,
and it performs all operations to measure the clotting time of a whole blood
sample after it is placed in the test cuvette and the test is started by the operator.
The front panel contains a keypad with various action keys as well as a number
pad. The operator uses the keypad to select a command or enter information. The
instrument also includes a barcode scanner for reading of barcode identifications
(IDs).
Data management capabilities are included with the instrument. These capabilities
include storage of up to 600 patient results and 600 quality control results,
designation of quality control levels, tagging of test results with date and time,
entry of Patient ID and/or Operator ID or Operator PIN, and printing of results.
1

--- Page 2 ---
HEMOCHRON® Configuration Manager Software is included with the
instrument. This software allows the user to connect a personal computer to the
instrument and perform system configuration functions using a Microsoft®
Windows® user interface. HEMOCHRON® Report Maker™ and idms™
software which are provided separately allows the user to connect a personal
computer to the instrument and perform various data management and data
reporting functions.
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation
System performs the same assays as the predicate instrument
HEMOCHRON® Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
(K020798) and uses the same clot detection system/method and clot detection
algorithms. The submitted design upgrades the user interface, data storage
and data manipulation functions. The instrument provides a secondary
information input pathway using a barcode scanner in addition to manual
keypad entry and offers a larger capacity to store data. The modifications
described above for the HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood
Microcoagulation System do not alter the intended use, the indications for
use, nor the fundamental scientific technology.
The HEMOCHRON® Configuration Manager Software which was cleared
with the HEMOCHRON® Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation
System (K020798) has the same functionality.
2. Principles of Operation:
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
employs a combination mechanical-optical clot detection mechanism. Blood is
placed in a collection reservoir of a test cuvette and subsequently drawn into the
test channel of the cuvette, which contains the reagent required to perform the
respective coagulation assay. As blood is actively pumped back and forth in the
test channel, LED detectors measure the position of the blood. As clotting begins
to occur, the movement of the blood decreases below a pre-determined rate where
the endpoint is recorded.
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
employs the same clot detection mechanism as the predicate HEMOCHRON® Jr.
Signature +™ (K020798).
3. Modes of Operation:
The mode of operation of the HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood
Microcoagulation System is random access. Tests are performed with single-use
disposable test cuvettes. The instrument alerts the operator to place a drop of
blood in the sample well of the cuvette and begin the test by pressing the start
key.
2

--- Page 3 ---
4. Specimen Identification:
Samples processed on the HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood
Microcoagulation System are designated as patient samples by default. A patient
ID can be entered for each test. The patient ID can be read from a barcode label
using the internal barcode scanner or can be entered using the keypad.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
is intended to be used with test cuvettes that are available from ITC. A drop of
blood is placed in the collection reservoir of a test cuvette and subsequently
drawn in the test channel. Fresh or citrated whole blood samples collected directly
from the patient are used. Reference is made to the package insert accompanying
the HEMOCHRON Jr. test cuvettes for storage and handling.
6. Calibration:
Not applicable.
7. Quality Control:
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
should be tested at two levels every eight hours of operation. Automatic Internal
Electronic Quality (EQC) can be used to provide a two level electronic
verification of instrument performance, or liquid control products can be used.
The EQC function is accessed through the QC Status menu by pressing the QC
key before or after inserting a cuvette. The results are displayed while the test is in
process. The EQC will check two levels of QC and the temperature, and will store
the results. If one result fails, the test will stop and all record all results as failed.
Cuvette validation is carried out using the appropriate HEMOCHRON Jr. Liquid
Quality Control (LQC) product using the test procedure provided with the control.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
HEMOCHRON® Configuration Manager Software is included with the
instrument. This software allows the user to connect a personal computer to the
instrument and perform system configuration functions using a Microsoft®
Windows® user interface. HEMOCHRON® Report Maker™ and idms™
software which are provided separately allows the user to connect a personal
3

--- Page 4 ---
computer to the instrument and perform various data management and data
reporting functions.
The Risk Analysis of the HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ system identified
the same risks as those for the predicate device as well as some additional risk
based on the HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ system modifications. A Master
Test Plan for validation and verification was provided along with a verification
and validation certification to insure that the activities of the plan will be
completed prior to the introduction of the product into interstate commerce in the
United States.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425, Multipurpose system for In-Vitro Coagulation Studies
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
JPA, System, Multipurpose for In-vitro Coagulation Studies
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use: The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood
Microcoagulation System is a battery operated hand-held instrument that
performs individual point-of-care coagulation tests on fresh or citrated whole
blood. These tests include: Activated Clotting Time (ACT+ and ACT-LR),
Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT and APTT Citrate), and
Prothrombin Time (PT and PT Citrate). The system is intended to be used with
test cuvettes that are available from ITC.
1. Indication for Use:
The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
is a battery operated hand-held instrument that performs individual point-of-care
coagulation tests on fresh or citrated whole blood. The system is intended for use
in clinical settings requiring point of care testing. Whole blood test results are
displayed as clotting times (in seconds). The HEMOCHRON® Signature Elite™
also displays correlated Celite® equivalent ACT values, APTT and PT plasma
equivalent values, and the PT INR value.
4

--- Page 5 ---
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Not applicable.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
HEMOCHRON® Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System,
K020798
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
HEMOCHRON® HEMOCHRON® Jr.
Signature Elite™ Signature +™
Assays used Activated Clotting Time Same
(ACT+ and ACT-LR)
Activated Partial
Thromboplastin Time
(APTT AND APTT
Citrate)
Prothrombin Time
(PT and PT Citrate)
Reagents Supplied in self- Same
contained disposable
cuvette
Results Displayed on LCD screen Same
Clot detection method Mechanical-optical clot Same
detection
Liquid QC Two levels-performed as Same
directed
Power Battery or AC operated Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
PC Connectivity RS-232 and External RS-232 Port
Ports
User/Patient Data Input User keypad or barcode User keypad entry
scanner entry
Data Storage Capacity 16 OID/20 PID 9 OID/PID numeric
alphanumeric characters characters 100 entries
600 entries
Electronic QC Internal or external External electronic QC
Requirements electronic QC cuvette
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			HEMOCHRON®
Signature Elite™			HEMOCHRON® Jr.
Signature +™		
Assays used			Activated Clotting Time
(ACT+ and ACT-LR)
Activated Partial
Thromboplastin Time
(APTT AND APTT
Citrate)
Prothrombin Time
(PT and PT Citrate)			Same		
Reagents			Supplied in self-
contained disposable
cuvette			Same		
Results			Displayed on LCD screen			Same		
Clot detection method			Mechanical-optical clot
detection			Same		
Liquid QC			Two levels-performed as
directed			Same		
Power			Battery or AC operated			Same		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
PC Connectivity			RS-232 and External
Ports			RS-232 Port		
User/Patient Data Input			User keypad or barcode
scanner entry			User keypad entry		
Data Storage Capacity			16 OID/20 PID
alphanumeric characters
600 entries			9 OID/PID numeric
characters 100 entries		
Electronic QC
Requirements			Internal or external
electronic QC			External electronic QC
cuvette		

--- Page 6 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Temperature QC Internally performed, Internally performed
Requirements verified and stored. User with ability to externally
optional ability to verify using Temperature
externally verify using Verification Cuvette
Temperature Verification
Cuvette
Assay Parameter Input User keypad or barcode Not available
scanner entry
LQC Parameter Input User keypad or barcode Not available
scanner entry
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 14971, “Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical
Devices”
ISO 9001:1994 and ISO/DIS 13485 section 4.4.7 Design verification.
IEC 60825-1 (Safety of laser products – Part 1: Equipment classification
requirements and user guide)
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
See data provided in previously 510(k) cleared K020798, HEMOCHRON®
Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See data provided in previously 510(k) cleared K020798, HEMOCHRON®
Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
c. Linearity:
See data provided in previously 510(k) cleared K020798, HEMOCHRON®
Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
d. Carryover:
See data provided in previously 510(k) cleared K020798, HEMOCHRON®
Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Temperature QC
Requirements			Internally performed,
verified and stored. User
optional ability to
externally verify using
Temperature Verification
Cuvette			Internally performed
with ability to externally
verify using Temperature
Verification Cuvette		
Assay Parameter Input			User keypad or barcode
scanner entry			Not available		
LQC Parameter Input			User keypad or barcode
scanner entry			Not available		

--- Page 7 ---
e. Interfering Substances:
See data provided in previously 510(k) cleared K020798, HEMOCHRON®
Jr. Signature +™ Whole Blood Microcoagulation System
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7