
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050817
B. Purpose for Submission:
Seek clearance of a new device
C. Analyte:
Thrombin
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative clotting assay
E. Applicant:
R2 Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
T-Tek Thrombin Time Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7875
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
GJA
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The T-Tek thrombin time reagent is intended for use in the quantitative
determination of Thrombin Time (TT) in citrated human plasma in the general
population. T-Tek should be used in the clinical laboratory by qualified
laboratory professionals. The test may be performed using manual, semi-
automated, or automated coagulation analyzers.
2. Indication(s) for use:
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument Requirements:
I. Device Description:
The T-Tek Thrombin Time Reagent is a lyophilized preparation of human thrombin
packaged in 10 x 1 mL vials of approximately 10 NIH units per mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
American Bioproducts, Diagnostica Stago Thrombin-PREST

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3
2. Predicate K number(s):
K884384
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Quantitative determination same
of thrombin time
Sample Citrated plasma same
requirement
Design Single component same
Source Material Human Thrombin same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Preparation Lyophilized Freeze-dried
Reagent Potency ~10 NIH units/mL ~1.5 NIH units/mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS EP-5-A Approved Guidelines; Evaluation of Precision Performance of
Clinical Chemistry Devices; Approved Guideline,
NCCLS EP-7-A Approved Guidelines; Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry;
Proposed Guideline,
NCCLS EP-9-A Approved Guidelines; Method Comparison and Bias Estimation
Using Patient Samples; Approved Guideline,
L. Test Principle:
Thrombin is a coagulation enzyme that acts on soluble fibrinogen converting it to an
insoluble fibrin clot. Low plasma fibrinogen levels, abnormal fibrinogen molecules
and substances such as heparin or fibrin degradation products, will prolong the
thrombin clotting time.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within-Run: 10 vials of 3 levels of lyophilized controls were
pooled, and tested in duplicate with the T-Tek Thrombin Time assay
on the ACL 3000 and STA Compact. CV’s < 7%.
Between-Run: 2 vials of each sample was pooled and tested in
duplicate for 5 days with the T-Tek Thrombin Time assay on the
ACL 3000 and STA Compact. CV’s <4%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Quantitative determination
of thrombin time			same		
Sample
requirement			Citrated plasma			same		
Design			Single component			same		
Source Material			Human Thrombin			same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Preparation			Lyophilized			Freeze-dried		
Reagent Potency			~10 NIH units/mL			~1.5 NIH units/mL		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3
A set of samples containing potential interfering substances from
clinical samples was tested in duplicate on the ACL 3000 and STA
Compact. Results demonstrate interference from hemolysis, lipemia,
bilirubin, heparin, and direct thrombin inhibitors. The device
labeling carries a warning against the use of these types of samples.
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A 2 site comparison study was performed using frozen samples. Site
1 performed testing on the STA Compact (n= 125, y = 1.2043x –
4.904, r=0.894. Site two was an in-house site, and testing was
performed on the ACL3000 (n=128, y=0.848x + 3.466, r=0.895).
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
120 normal donor plasma samples were tested in duplicate with the T-Tek on
the ACL3000 and STA Compact. Normal reference interval determined at the
10th and 90th percentile is 13-15 secs on the ACL3000, and 16-18 secs on the
STA Compact.
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.