
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K050799
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the Triage® D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls and
the Triage® D-Dimer Controls
C. Measurand:
D-dimer
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control
E. Applicant:
Biosite Incorporated
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Triage® D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls
Triage® D-Dimer Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Triage D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls are to be used with the
Triage D-Dimer Test and Triage MeterPlus to verify the calibration of the Triage
D-Dimer Test throughout the measurable range.
The Triage D-Dimer Controls are assayed materials to be used with the Triage D-
Dimer Test and Triage Meter Plus to assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Triage D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls are to be used with the
Triage D-Dimer Test and Triage MeterPlus to verify the calibration of the Triage
D-Dimer Test throughout the measurable range.
The Triage D-Dimer Controls are assayed materials to be used with the Triage D-
Dimer Test and Triage Meter Plus to assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
Triage MeterPlus
I. Device Description:
The Triage D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls are supplied as five 0.25
mL vials at levels A, B, C, D, and E. Each vial is composed of EDTA human
plasma containing preservatives and D-dimer. The concentrations and standard
deviations are on the enclosed card.
The Triage D-Dimer Controls are supplied as five 0.25 mL vials at two levels (1
and 2). The vials are composed of EDTA human plasma containing preservatives
and D-dimer.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ D-dimer Control Levels 1, 2 and 3
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K032017
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Analytes D-dimer Same
Form Liquid Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Assayed control for Assayed quality control
monitoring test to monitor the precision
performance of D-dimer procedures
Matrix EDTA human plasma Processed human plasma
containing preservative with added constituents
and D-dimer of human and animal
origin and preservatives
Storage (unopened) -20 °C or colder 2-8 °C until expiration
date
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The Triage D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls and Triage D-Dimer
Controls were prepared using EDTA plasma at various concentrations. The
Level 1 and Level 2 Controls were tested 8 times each at 10 different time
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analytes
Form			D-dimer
Liquid			Same
Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use
Matrix
Storage (unopened)			Assayed control for
monitoring test
performance
EDTA human plasma
containing preservative
and D-dimer
-20 °C or colder			Assayed quality control
to monitor the precision
of D-dimer procedures
Processed human plasma
with added constituents
of human and animal
origin and preservatives
2-8 °C until expiration
date		

--- Page 4 ---
points using the Triage D-Dimer Controls. The % CV for the Level 1 control
is 8.6% and the Level 2 control is 8.2%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
An open vial stability study was conducted to determine the stability of the
control material once removed from frozen storage. Samples were thawed on
a bench top with an ambient room temperature of 22 °C. Samples were tested
on the same lot of randomized Triage devices at 10, 15, 20, 30, 60, 90 and 120
minutes. Samples were tested on 6 devices at each time point. Acceptance
criterion for the study was defined as D-dimer values being within the
expected range ± 2 standard deviations. Acceptable performance was
obtained when the controls were thawed between 10-120 minutes with 30
minutes being the recommended time point for a thawed vial.
Closed-vial stability studies are continual and are used to determine product
expiration dating. The Triage D-Dimer Calibration Verification Controls and
the Triage D-Dimer Controls were stored at -20 °C and data generated over
the initial 9 months indicated that D-dimer present in the Triage D-Dimer
Calibration Verification Controls and the Triage D-Dimer Controls are stable
for at least 9 months at -20 °C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Lot specific
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
5