
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K051231
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the VerifyNow™ P2Y12 Assay designed for measurement of
inhibition of platelet function due to clopidogrel ingestion.
C. Measurand:
Platelet Aggregometry
D. Type of Test:
Automated Platelet Aggregation
E. Applicant:
Accumetrics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VerifyNow™ P2Y12 Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5700
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JOZ
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VerifyNow-P2Y12 Assay is a whole blood assay used in the laboratory or point of
care setting to measure the level of platelet P2Y12 receptor blockade.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The VerifyNow-P2Y12 Assay is a whole blood assay used in the laboratory or point of
care setting to measure the level of platelet P2Y12 receptor blockade.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay is designed to be run on the VerifyNow Instrument.
I. Device Description:
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay is comprised of the VerifyNow P2Y12 cartridge, Wet Quality
Controls 1 and 2, and the VerifyNow instrument and Electronic Quality Control. The
VerifyNow System is a turbidometric based optical detection system, which measures
platelet induced aggregation as an increase in light transmittance. The system consists of a
stand-alone instrument and a single-use disposable assay device with reagents based on
microbead agglutination technology. The quality control system includes an electronic
control, an assay device internal control, and two levels of liquid control. The instrument
controls assay sequencing, establishes the assay temperature, controls the reagent-sample
mixing for the required duration, determines the degree of platelet function, displays the
results and status information to the user, and performs self-diagnostics.
The assay device contains a lyophilized preparation of human fibrinogen coated beads,
adenosine-5-diphosphate (ADP), a peptide, a fatty acid, buffer and preservative. The patient
sample is citrated whole blood, which is automatically dispensed from the blood collection
tube into the assay device by the instrument, with no blood handling required by the user.
Fibrinogen-coated microparticles are used in the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay device to bind
activated platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptors. ADP is incorporated into the assay to activate
platelets, and the reagent is formulated to specifically measure P2Y12-mediated platelet
aggregation. When the activated platelets are exposed to the fibrinogen-coated
microparticles, aggregation occurs in proportion to the number of activated platelet receptors.
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay reports results in P2Y12 Reaction Units (PRU).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
1. Predicate device name(s):
(a) CHRONO-LOG Whole Blood Aggregometer with CHRONO-PAR ADP Reagent
(b) VerifyNow-Aspirin Assay
(c) VerifyNow IIb/IIIa Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
(a) K830749
(b) K042423
(c) K992531
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Feature VerifyNow P2Y12 CHRONO-LOG CHRONO-LOG
Assay Aggregometer Whole Blood
(optical) Aggregometer
(impedance)
Principle of Fibrinogen bead/platelet Platelet aggregation
Operation aggregation with optical with optical detection
detection
Indication for Use Platelet function testing: Platelet function testing Platelet function
measure the level of testing
platelet P2Y12 blockade
Type of Specimen Citrated whole blood Citrated whole blood
Testing Site Point of care or Laboratory Laboratory
laboratory
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Feature VerifyNow P2Y12 CHRONO-LOG CHRONO-LOG
Assay Aggregometer Whole Blood
(optical) Aggregometer
(impedance)
Principle of Fibrinogen bead/platelet Platelet aggregation
Operation aggregation with optical with detection by
detection electrical impedance
Indication for Use Platelet function testing: Platelet function testing Platelet function
measure the level of testing
platelet P2Y12 blockade
Sample preparation None Centrifugation and Manual addition of
platelet count sample and reagents
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities									
	Item			Device			Predicate		
Feature			VerifyNow P2Y12
Assay			CHRONO-LOG
Aggregometer
(optical)		CHRONO-LOG
Whole Blood
Aggregometer
(impedance)	
Principle of
Operation			Fibrinogen bead/platelet
aggregation with optical
detection			Platelet aggregation
with optical detection			
Indication for Use			Platelet function testing:
measure the level of
platelet P2Y12 blockade			Platelet function testing		Platelet function
testing	
Type of Specimen			Citrated whole blood					Citrated whole blood	
Testing Site			Point of care or
laboratory			Laboratory		Laboratory	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences									
	Item			Device			Predicate		
Feature			VerifyNow P2Y12
Assay			CHRONO-LOG
Aggregometer
(optical)		CHRONO-LOG
Whole Blood
Aggregometer
(impedance)	
Principle of
Operation			Fibrinogen bead/platelet
aggregation with optical
detection					Platelet aggregation
with detection by
electrical impedance	
Indication for Use			Platelet function testing:
measure the level of
platelet P2Y12 blockade			Platelet function testing		Platelet function
testing	
Sample preparation			None			Centrifugation and
platelet count		Manual addition of
sample and reagents	

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
adjustment by operator
Type of Specimen Citrated whole blood Platelet rich plasma
(PRP) from citrated
whole blood
Test procedure 1. Add cartridge to Manual addition of Manual addition of
instrument sample and reagents by sample and reagents
2. Attach blood operator by operator
collection tube
No other operator
intervention
Results P2Y12 Reaction Units Amplitude (extent) and Ohms
(PRU) slope
Calibration Factory Extensive, at site Extensive, at site
Controls 1. Pre-packaged two- None provided None provided
level Wet Quality
Controls (WQC)
2. Internal control in
each assay device
Time to result 3 minutes 30 to 60 minutes 30 to 60 minutes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
EP5-A, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices
C28-A2, How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory,
Second Edition
EP7-A, Interference Testing
C24-A2, Statistical Quality Control for Quantitative Measurements: Principles and
Definitions, Second Edition
L. Test Principle:
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay is designed to measure platelet P2Y12 receptor blockade.
The assay is based upon the ability of activated platelets to bind fibrinogen. Fibrinogen-
coated microparticles aggregate in whole blood in proportion to the number of unblocked
platelet GP IIb/IIIa receptors. The rate of microbead aggregation is more rapid and
reproducible if platelets are activated; therefore the reagent adenosine-5-diphosphate (ADP)
and an additive (fatty acid) are incorporated into the assay to induce platelet activation
without fibrin formation. The reagent is formulated to specifically measure P2Y12 –
mediated platelet aggregation. Light transmittance increases as activated platelets bind and
aggregate fibrinogen-coated beads. The instrument measures this change in optical signal
and reports results in P2Y12 Reaction Units (PRU).
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences									
	Item			Device			Predicate		
						adjustment		by operator	
Type of Specimen			Citrated whole blood			Platelet rich plasma
(PRP) from citrated
whole blood			
Test procedure			1. Add cartridge to
instrument
2. Attach blood
collection tube
No other operator
intervention			Manual addition of
sample and reagents by
operator		Manual addition of
sample and reagents
by operator	
Results			P2Y12 Reaction Units
(PRU)			Amplitude (extent) and
slope		Ohms	
Calibration			Factory			Extensive, at site		Extensive, at site	
Controls			1. Pre-packaged two-
level Wet Quality
Controls (WQC)
2. Internal control in
each assay device			None provided		None provided	
Time to result			3 minutes			30 to 60 minutes		30 to 60 minutes	

--- Page 5 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision for the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay was evaluated according to NCCLS
(CLSI) Guideline EP5-A, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry
Devices: Approved Guideline. Precision studies (preliminary and Complex) of the
VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay were performed by testing Wet Quality Controls (WQC),
Levels 1 and 2, and blood samples from volunteer donors, using three different lots of
assay devices and three instruments.
Preliminary Precision
The preliminary (simple) precision study evaluated within-run precision and lot to lot
assay device variation of the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay. Twenty replicates each of
WQC Levels 1 and 2 and blood samples from three volunteer donors (one female and
two males) were tested. Blood samples collected in 3.2% sodium citrate from each
donor were divided into 1 ml aliquots, and tested according to the VerifyNow P2Y12
test procedure instructions outlined in the draft package insert.
The summary of precision data for whole blood samples are as follows: CVs = 7.1%,
4.3%, and 3.6% for within run precision (design goal ≤8% CV).
Precision data for WQC Levels 1 and 2 include standard deviations (SD) and CV
values for Level 2. CV was not calculated for Level 1 because the nominal PRU
value is zero. Values for Level 1 SD = 1.7, 1.5, and 1.8; Level 2 SD = 21.0, 16.5, and
18.6; Level 2 CV = 7.0, 5.5, and 6.2.
Complex Precision
Complex precision was evaluated in two male blood donor and WQC Levels 1 and 2.
Testing was done on 20 days, two runs per day (AM and PM). Blood was drawn in
two 3.2% sodium citrate tubes following a 2 ml discard. Testing of controls was
performed on one lot of Level 1 and one lot of Level 2 WQC.
Summary values for the two donors include: Within-run: SD = 10.6, CV = 4.8; Day-
to-day-day precision: SD = 10.2, CV = 4.7 and Run-to-run: SD = 12.8, CV 5.7. Total
complex precision for donor samples: SD = 19.5 and CV = 8.8.
Precision results for WQC Levels 1 Total (within-run, day-to-day, run-to-run)
standard deviation for three lots of Level 1 WQC = 1.4.
Precision results for WQC Levels 2 Total (within-run, day-to-day, run-to-run)
standard deviation for three lots of Level 2 WQC = 19.5 and CV 6.2.
5

--- Page 6 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: No reference material known or available.
Stability: A study was performed to evaluate the optimal time to store whole blood
samples after blood draw and prior to performing the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay. The
study was performed in two parts: Initial Blood Stability and Long Term Blood
Stability. The Initial Blood Stability study entails storing blood samples for various
time periods between zero and 30 minutes after blood draw. Blood samples from
five volunteer donors were tested (single determinations) at 0, 3, 5, 10, 14, 18, 25 and
30 minutes after blood draw. Study results show that PRU values stabilized after 10
minutes. The VerifyNow package insert instructs the user to wait a minimum of 10
minutes after blood draw before running the assay.
Long-term stability was evaluated both for baseline samples and samples with platelet
inhibition induced by addition of Pletal (cilostazol). Pletal, a known inhibitor of
platelet aggregation without first being metabolized by the liver, was added ex-vivo
to healthy donor blood to mimic clopidogrel-like effects. Long-term storage was
evaluated by storing blood samples from ten volunteer donors, baseline and inhibited,
fro periods ranging from 0 to 240 minutes prior to testing in duplicate. A fair amount
of variability was observed between time points over the 4-hour period, although
there were no discernable trends in PRU values. Study results indicate that samples
may be stored for up to 4 hours after blood draw without affecting PRU or percent
inhibition results. The VerifyNow package insert instructs the user to test blood
samples within 4 hours after blood draw.
Three stability studies are in progress to evaluate the stability of VerifyNow P2Y12
assay devices. The first study is being performed to determine the shelf life of
VerifyNow P2Y12 assay devices when stored at recommended storage temperature.
The planned storage temperature for VerifyNow P2Y12 assay devices is between 2
and 25° C.
The second study is similar to the first except that the reagents which are lyophilized
as pellets are stored in bulk. Three lots of reagent pellets will be stored at 2 – 8° C
and 25° C before testing. This data is needed to show equivalent stability of bulk
reagent and reagent incorporated into assay devices due to manufacturing processes.
The third study examined the effect of simulated shipping conditions on the
VerifyNow P2Y12 assay device. Assay devices were subjected to a simulated 24-
hour summer shipping profile and a 48-hour summer shipping profile. Then they
were placed on a 14-month real time stability study as described above.
6

--- Page 7 ---
Wet Quality Controls Levels 1 and 2 and volunteer donor blood were tested as
samples in the three stability studies. The data presented supports VerifyNow P2Y12
assay device stability for at least nine months when stored at 2 – 25° C.
d. Detection limit:
Not assessed.
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference testing was performed to evaluate the effect of common substances in
patient samples on the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay. Substances likely to affect P2Y12
receptor and drugs commonly used by patients on clopidogrel therapy were evaluated
in in-house laboratory studies. Substances for the Interfering Substances Test Panel
were added ex-vivo to blood from healthy donors. The intent of the analyses was to
determine whether changes in clinical parameters resulted in corresponding changes
in observed PRU values.
Variation of certain normal blood constituents, such as platelet count, hematocrit,
fibrinogen, and lipid as well as additional factors of age , and weight were performed
on clinical subjects as part of the clinical study to establish ranges over which the
VerifyNow-P2Y12 Assay performed accurately and without interference. Correlation
coefficients and R2 values were performed to determine whether a relationship
between varying levels of the parameters and the PRU values were observed. An
interference effect was reported only if the amount of the effecting PRU was greater
than an amount that would be caused by normal variability of the VerifyNow P2Y12
Assay (measurement noise - CV = 8%). NCCLS Guideline C28-A2 was used to
evaluate the relationship between the levels of these potentially interfering substances
and the reported VerifyNow P2Y12 assay results.
• Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (abciximab) demonstrates PRU interference
effect by 43% and 25% at doses of 1.5 µg/ml and 0.5 µg/ml, respectively.
Antiplatelet agent (cilastazol) demonstrated PRU interference effects of 13%,
32% and 50% when dosed at 5 µM, 10 µM and 15 µM respectively.
• Drugs that affect platelet function may be detected up to 14 days after
ingestion.
• Other classes of commonly used drugs were tested with no significant effect
on VerifyNow P2Y12 assay performance (antioxidants, ACE inhibitor,
antiarrhythmics, anticoagulants, antidepressants, insulin, allopurinol alcohol,
beta blockers, bronchodilators, calcium channel blockers, gastrointestinal
medications, betamethasone, lovastatin, NSAID (including COX-1 and COX-
2 enzymes), and the thyroid hormone L-thyroxine. The thrombolytic agent
streptokinase show no significant inhibition of platelet function, as measured
by the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay.
• Assay performance was not affected by hematocrit values between 33-52%, or
platelet count values between 119,000 – 502,000/µl.
7

--- Page 8 ---
• No significant interference was observed on samples studied with triglyceride
concentrations between 41-824 mg/dl. No significant interference was
observed on samples studied with cholesterol concentrations between 98-316
mg/dl.
• No assay interference was observed when samples with fibrinogen levels
between 171-559 mg/dl were tested with the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay.
• The VerifyNow P2Y12 package insert advises the user not to use samples
where hemolysis is suspected.
f. Assay cut-off:
Citrated whole blood was drawn and testing performed on samples from 147
evaluable patients with planned treatment with clopidogrel. Patients enrolled in the
study had a history of vascular disease or two of eight risk factors for developing
vascular disease as noted in the American Heart Association criteria (current or
previous history of smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, family history of vascular
disease, post-menopausal females, diabetes mellitus, morbid obesity or sedentary
lifestyle). Subjects were on aspirin therapy for at least two days prior to participation.
Evaluable subjects had a mean age of 50 (range 22-88), with females comprising
61.2% of the population and ethnicity was 74.1% Caucasian. 52 patients (35.4%) had
a previous history of vascular disease, while the remaining subjects (32%) had at least
two of eight risk factors, 19% of the population had three risk factors, and 13.6% with
four or more risk factors.
Exclusion criteria included treatment with platelet inhibiting drugs such as
thienopyridines (clopidogrel or ticlopidine) dipyridamole or glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
inhibitors.
A reference range for the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay was calculated at the 95%
confidence level for the baseline (pre-clopidogrel) dataset. The reference range for
baseline subjects is 194 - 418 PRU. The mean PRU value is 306.7 with a SD of 58.5.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The clinical study measured platelet response to clopidogrel therapy in subjects with
vascular disease or at risk for vascular disease with the P2Y12 assay. The VerifyNow
P2Y12 Assay was evaluated in patients treated with clopidogrel, a drug known to
specifically block the platelet P2Y12 ADP receptor. External clinical studies were
performed at four institutions on the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay and the CHRONO-
LOG Optical Aggregometer with CHRONO-PAR ADP reagent. The CHRONO-
LOG Whole Blood Aggregometer was cleared using the CHROLO-LOG Optical
Aggregometer as the predicated device.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Testing was performed on samples from 147 evaluable patients with planned
treatment with clopidogrel. Subjects enrolled in the study had a history of vascular
disease or two of eight risk factors for developing vascular disease as noted in the
American Heart Association criteria (current or previous history of smoking,
hypertension, hyperlipidemia, family history of vascular disease, post-menopausal
females, diabetes mellitus, morbid obesity or sedentary lifestyle).
Exclusion criteria included treatment with platelet inhibiting drugs such as
thienopyridines (clopidogrel or ticlopidine) dipyridamole or glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
inhibitors, known history of platelet count < 100 x 109/L, known history or family
history of bleeding or bruising, hypersensitivity to thienopyridines, females who are
pregnant or nursing and participation in another clinical trial of an investigation drug
within the past 30 days.
Subjects were placed on one of two dosing regimens, a single loading dose (450 mg),
or a daily dose of 75 mg for seven consecutive days. Subjects were on aspirin
therapy for at least two days prior to participation. Blood samples were drawn for
testing prior to clopidogrel administration and after the dosing regimen was
completed.
The VerifyNow Assay was compared to optical platelet aggregometry using 5mM
ADP as the agonist. The unit of measure for the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay is P2Y12
Reaction Units (PRU), and is based upon both the rate and extent of platelet and
fibrinogen-coated beads binding over a defined period.
The clinical trials were designed to obtain samples at two time points: 1) Baseline,
prior to clopidogrel ingestion; and 2) either 24 hours post ingestion of a single 450
mg loading dose, or post ingestion of 75 mg a day for at least seven days. For each
patient, a baseline and post ingestion (24-hour or 7 days) sample was measured by
each test method and the results recorded. Subjects were considered non-evaluable if
any of the following conditions occurred:
• Known interfering substances present at baseline
• Hematology values outside the institutional protocol limits
• Subjects did not have evaluable data at both time points for both P2Y12 and
aggregometry
In order to compare the clinical P2Y12 Reaction Units (PRU) and light transmittance
aggregometry (LTA) results, post-clopidogrel data were expressed as percent
inhibition or percent reduction from baseline in the following calculation:
% INH = ((Baseline PRU – Post-drug PRU) / Baseline PRU) x 100
% INH = ((Baseline LTA – Post-drug LTA) / Baseline LTA) x 100
9

--- Page 10 ---
A reference range for the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay was calculated at the 95%
confidence level for the baseline (pre-clopidogrel) dataset. The reference range for
baseline subjects is 194 - 418 PRU. The mean PRU value is 306.7 with a SD of 58.5.
The percent inhibition for P2Y12 Assay and optical platelet aggregometry for all sites
is as follows:
% Inhibition Overall % Inhibition 450 mg % Inhibition 75 mg
P2Y12 ‘n’ 147 110 37
Mean ± SD 64.0 ± 25.3 62.5 ± 25.5 68.7 ± 24.5
Range 16.6 – 99.8 16.9 – 99.8 23.2 – 99.0
Aggregometry ‘n’ 147 110 37
Mean ± SD 35.5 ± 26.1 35.6 ± 24.0 34.9 ± 26.7
Range -43.6 – 93.8 -43.6 – 95.8 -10.3 – 91.1
As further substantiation, percent inhibition was measured by comparing light
transmittance aggregometry (LTA) using 10µM ADP alone, and LTA with both ADP
and additive. The VerifyNow P2Y12 assay was run using the same samples. Blood
drawn from 10 individuals was tested in the presence of 2-methylthio-AMP (2Me
SAMP), a known specific P2Y12 inhibitor, at a concentration of 70 µM to achieve
near maximal inhibition. Results of the study demonstrate that for all 10 samples, the
percent inhibition is less for LTA with ADP only (73% avg. inhibition) than for
aggregometry with ADP and the additive (95% avg. inhibition). Agreement between
VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay and LTA using the additive was 93% vs 95% avg.
inhibition.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not assessed.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay reports patient results in P2Y12 Reaction Units (PRU),
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
	% Inhibition Overall	% Inhibition 450 mg	% Inhibition 75 mg
P2Y12 ‘n’	147	110	37
Mean ± SD	64.0 ± 25.3	62.5 ± 25.5	68.7 ± 24.5
Range	16.6 – 99.8	16.9 – 99.8	23.2 – 99.0
Aggregometry ‘n’	147	110	37
Mean ± SD	35.5 ± 26.1	35.6 ± 24.0	34.9 ± 26.7
Range	-43.6 – 93.8	-43.6 – 95.8	-10.3 – 91.1

--- Page 11 ---
which are calculated as a function of the rate and extent of aggregation. The VerifyNow
P2Y12 Assay allows the user to compare the PRU value for a post-drug sample to the
baseline PRU result for a pre-drug sample for the same patient and to calculate the
percent inhibition. A cutoff linked to a clinical outcome has not been established.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
A reference range for the VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay was calculated at the 95% confidence
level for the baseline (pre-clopidogrel) dataset. The reference range for baseline subjects
is 194-418 PRU. The mean PRU value is 306.7 with a SD of 58.5.
N. Instrument Name:
Accumetrics, Inc., VerifyNow System
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Operator inserts sample tube into test device; individual, closed-tube assay
2. Software:
The VerifyNow Instrument software has been updated to incorporate the use of the
VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay. Software modifications include calculation and reporting of
PRU results for patient samples and controls, calculation of percent inhibition, and
reporting an error message when the calculated results for the internal control channel fall
outside the acceptable range.
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types: (See software review)
Yes ___X_____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
The VerifyNow System’s default setting does not require the user to enter a Patient ID,
however the system can be programmed to require a Patient ID before an assay can be
performed.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Fresh citrated whole blood samples in the appropriate collection device are required for
use with the VerifyNow instrument. The sample well contains a needle for sampling
directly from a closed vacuum collection tube.
11

--- Page 12 ---
5. Calibration:
The VerifyNow P2Y12 Assay devices are calibrated at the factory and requires no
calibration by the user. The calibration information is contained in the barcode on the
pouch of each assay device. The barcode must be scanned whenever a new lot of assay
devices are to be tested.
6. Quality Control:
Each assay device includes internal controls to determine whether the VerifyNow P2Y12
Assay result is valid and causes the instrument to report an error message for an invalid
test. The negative internal control test is performed during the first five seconds of the
assay, before platelet activation and binding to the fibrinogen-coated beads occurs.
The positive internal control consists of a reagent channel that is similar to the P2Y12
assay channel, except it uses Thrombin Receptor Activating Peptide (TRAP) instead of
ADP as the agonist. The positive internal control test is performed during the active
phase of the assay.
The VerfyNow P2Y12 Assay utilizes VerifyNow Wet Quality Controls (WQC) Levels 1
and 2 for verifying the integrity of the VerifyNow System. Controls have been
formulated at clinically relevant levels with WQC Level 1 providing low level P2Y12
results. WQC Level 1 is a carbon sol suspension, used to mimic the optical properties of
whole blood. WQC Level 2 is designed to provide high level P2Y12 results, comparable
to results obtained from patient samples prior to ingestion of clopidogrel. WQC Level 2
is a lyophilized pellet, which is added to the diluent vial and reconstituted before use.
WQC Level 2 uses a peptide that binds to fibrinogen to induce aggregation, which
simulates the binding of fibrinogen-coated microparticles to platelets in the VerifyNow
P2Y12 Assay. Assigned values for WQC Level 1 (≤ 30 PRU) and Level 2 (228 - 372
PRU) are included in the package insert.
The VerifyNow System contains the following internal controls:
• The instrument automatically verifies sample filling, correct fluid transfer and
mixing. It also monitor the electronic and mechanical components
• Each assay device incorporates two levels of quality control to identify invalid
test runs caused by random error, reagent degradation or inappropriate blood
samples. Before platelet activation and fibrinogen binding begin, the negative
internal control performs a test for non-specific aggregation. During the active
phase of the assay, the positive internal control channel monitors the reaction and
calculates Control Units, which must fall within specified limits.
Electronic Quality Control (EQC) is the primary quality control mechanism for the
VerifyNow instrument. It is a reusable device that is inserted by the operator into the
assay port and is used to perform a comprehensive testing routine that confirms
performance of instrument optics, the pneumatics system, reagent mixing parameters,
12

--- Page 13 ---
calibration parameters, simulates assay testing at two levels to check correct data
acquisition and calculation and the required EQC testing frequency. Accumetrics
recommends that EQC be run at least on a daily basis, although a preferred testing
frequency may be selected by an institution. When the established interval has elapsed,
the used is locked out from running a patient test until the EQC test has been successfully
completed.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
13