
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K051706
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the iQ® Body Fluids Control for Iris Diagnostics.
C. Measurand:
Body fluid red blood cells and nucleated cell counts
D. Type of Test:
Control for evaluating body fluid cell counts
E. Applicant:
Streck Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
iQ® Body Fluids Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JPK
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
iQ® Body Fluids Controls are intended for use on iQ® Series analyzers, with the
optional iQ® Body Fluids Module installed, as a control for evaluating body fluid
RBC and nucleated cell counts. The device will consist of two levels of red blood
cells and nucleated cells.
2. Indication(s) for use:
iQ® Body Fluids Controls are intended for use on iQ® Series analyzers, with the
optional iQ® Body Fluids Module installed, as a control for evaluating body fluid
RBC and nucleated cell counts. The device will consist of two levels of red blood
cells and nucleated cells.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
iQ® Body Fluids Control is a stabilized suspension of human red blood cells and
simulated white blood cells in a solution containing biological salts and anti-
microbial preservatives. The product is packaged in glass vials containing 8 ml. The
closures are polypropylene screw caps with polyethylene liners. Four vials are
included in a set. Two vials are level 1 with a low cell count and the other two vials
are level 2 with a higher concentration of cells. The vials are further packaged in a
six (6) welled vacuum formed “clam-shell” container with the package insert / assay
sheet. The product must be stored at 2 – 10° C.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Cell-Chex
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K000076
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Reagent components Assayed mixture of red Same
and white blood cells set
at specific concentrations
Stability 30-day open vial stability Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Instrumentation Iris Diagnostics’ iQ® Manual diagnostic
Body Fluids Module methods
Stability 40-day closed vial 6-month closed vial
stability stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle:
The iQ® Body Fluids Controls were designed to provide a cell mixture that would be
useful as positive controls for the Iris Diagnostics’ iQ® Body Fluids Module. The
iQ® Body Fluids Module is an in-vitro diagnostic device used by a competent human
observer to examine and count red blood cells and nucleated cells in cerebrospinal
fluid and serous fluids. A trained technician uses iQ® Body Fluids Controls to verify
that he or she can count red blood cells and nucleated cells accurately with the iQ®
Body Fluids Module. When handled like a patient sample, iQ® Body Fluids Controls
will provide RBC and nucleated cell counts within the expected ranges indicated on
the assay sheet.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility studies were performed on three lots of each level of iQ®
Body Fluids Controls. Each value is calculated from 10 consecutive replicates
of each level for each pilot lot (a total of 10 data points per level). Repeat
testing was conducted at an offsite location using one pilot lot and one patient
sample. The mean, SD and % CV were calculated for the data.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reagent components			Assayed mixture of red
and white blood cells set
at specific concentrations			Same		
Stability			30-day open vial stability			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Instrumentation			Iris Diagnostics’ iQ®
Body Fluids Module			Manual diagnostic
methods		
Stability			40-day closed vial
stability			6-month closed vial
stability		

--- Page 4 ---
Open Vial Stability:
Three pilot lots of reagent were set up to verify performance throughout the
30-day open vial dating. On specified days, during a 30-day period, analyses
were conducted on the iQ® 200 analyzer (13 times, approximately 3 runs per
week) from a single vial per level. Reagent vials were returned to refrigerated
storage between analysis periods. All lots performed as expected, with
parameter recovery within the established assay ranges.
Closed Vial Stability:
Three lots of reagent were set up to verify performance throughout the 40-day
expiration dating. On specified days, during a 40-day period, analysis was
conducted on the iQ® 200 analyzer. Each vial was analyzed three times in
succession (one run per week for 3 to 4 weeks for each vial). Reagent vials
were returned to refrigerated storage between analysis periods. The data
demonstrated no significant trends and consistent recovery of values within
the indicated assay range.
iQ® Body Fluids Controls are stable through the expiration date when stored
at 2 – 10° C. After opening, iQ® Body Fluids Controls are stable throughout
the open-vial dating, as indicated on the assay sheet when store at 2 – 10° C.
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Alternate Site Testing:
Product samples were provided to an alternate site location at UCLA in Los
4

--- Page 5 ---
Angeles, CA. The two levels performed within the assay range.
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The assigned values for red blood cells and nucleated cells were determined by
replicate analysis of iQ® Body Fluids Controls on iQ® 200 Series Analyzers. The
mean and expected ranges for both levels of each lot are included in the package
insert. The ranges were calculated using all of the data for 40 days from each lot
and multiplying the % CV by 2.5. The ranges were set at a minimum of ± 20%
or, if greater, rounded to the next higher hundred value, i.e.437 rounded to 500.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
5