
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K051638
B. Purpose of Submission:
To obtain clearance for the Inverness Medical TestPack + Plus
Strep Test
C. Analyte:
Group A Streptococcal antigen
D. Type of Test:
Horizontal-flow enzyme immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Unipath Limited
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Inverness Medical TestPack + Plus Strep A with OBC
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Part 866.3740 Streptococcus spp. serological reagents
Limitation: 21 CFR 866.9 (6)
2. Classification:
I
3. Product Code:
GTY – Streptococcus spp.
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
INVERNESS MEDICAL TESTPACK PLUS STREP A with On Board
Controls (OBC) (TESTPACK STREP A) is a rapid immunoassay for
the qualitative detection of Group A Streptococcal (Group A Strep)
antigen in throat swab specimens from patients with suspected
Group A Strep associated pharyngitis and for confirmation of
presumptive Group A Strep colonies isolated on culture plates. For
Professional and Laboratory use only.
2. Indication(s) for use:
INVERNESS MEDICAL TESTPACK PLUS STREP A with (OBC) TEST is
intended for the qualitative detection of Group A Streptococcal (Group A
Strep) antigen in throat swab specimens from patients with suspected
Group A Strep associated pharyngitis and for confirmation of
presumptive Group A Strep colonies isolated on culture plates. The test is
intended for Professional and Laboratory use only.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 5
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The device consists of a chromatography strip membrane housed in a plastic frame.
The membrane carries immobilized polyclonal anti-Strep A antibody coupled to
colloidal gold dye particles. The test line contains sheep and rabbit anti-group A
streptococcus antibody. The control line consists of an immobilized antibody to the
anti-Strep A indicator antibody. At the control line, anti-Strep A indicator antibody-
unbound/bound colloidal gold complexes form a control line in the control window
which indicates that the device is functioning properly. Additionally, the test device
consists of negative and positive on board controls that also serve as indicators that
the test reagents are working correctly.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Quidel QuickVue® Dipstick Strep A Test
2. Predicate K number(s):
K011097
3. Comparison with predicate(s):
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use For the qualitative detection same
of group A streptococcal
antigen directly from throat
swabs.
Specimen type Throat swab or culture same
colonies
technology Immunochromatographic same
antibodies Polyclonal anti-Strep A same
Limit of detection 1.5x105 CFU mL same
Difference
Item Device Predicate
Extraction method Extraction applied to device Dipstick placed in tube of
test well extract
Clinical sensitivity 97.6% CI (93.1-99.5%) 92% CI (86-96%)
Clinical specificity 98.4% CI (95.9-99.6%) 98% CI (95-99%)
Positive and Yes No
negative on board
controls
End of assay Yes No
control
Extraction reagents 3 2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			For the qualitative detection
of group A streptococcal
antigen directly from throat
swabs.			same		
Specimen type			Throat swab or culture
colonies			same		
technology			Immunochromatographic			same		
antibodies			Polyclonal anti-Strep A			same		
Limit of detection			1.5x105 CFU mL			same		
			Difference					
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Extraction method			Extraction applied to device
test well			Dipstick placed in tube of
extract		
Clinical sensitivity			97.6% CI (93.1-99.5%)			92% CI (86-96%)		
Clinical specificity			98.4% CI (95.9-99.6%)			98% CI (95-99%)		
Positive and
negative on board
controls			Yes			No		
End of assay
control			Yes			No		
Extraction reagents			3			2		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 5
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The test device is a lateral flow immunoassay consisting of a chromatography strip
membrane housed in a plastic frame. The membrane carries immobilized sheep and
rabbit polyclonal antibodies bound to colloidal gold dye particles. The Streptococcal
Group A specific antigen is extracted from the throat swab using Reagent 1 and Reagent
2. Following this, Reagent 3 is added to neutralize the acid formed by Reagents 1 and 2.
The mixture is then dropped into the Sample Well of the reaction disc and allowed to
migrate through the membrane until it reaches the End of Assay Window. As the
specimen extract migrates through the membrane, it mobilizes the Group A Strep
antibody-coated colloid. If Group A Streptococcal antigen is present in the specimen it
will form a complex with the antibody-colloid. The antibody colloid complex migrates
through the membrane and is then captured by the Group A Strep antibody in the result
window, providing a visual indication of the presence of antigen. The test can be read
when the End of Assay Window has turned pink/red. A pink/red Plus Sign (+) appearing
in the Result Window indicates the presence of the Group A Strep antigen. A Minus Sign
(–) indicates no antigen was detected.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within lot, between lot and between operator reproducibility were
tested over a 3 day period. Five replicates of a negative, weak positive
and positive control were tested by 3 operators on each occasion. No
differences were seen between runs, and all controls produced the
expected results.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
The test device has a minimum limit of detection of 1.5 x 105
CFU/mL.
e. Analytical specificity:
The analytical specificity was determined by testing organisms
expected to be found in the respiratory tract at 1x108 organisms per
mL, with the exception of Staphylococcus aureus, which was tested at
1x109 organisms per mL. No cross reactivity was found when TESTPACK
STREP A was tested with the bacteria listed below:
Arcanobacterium haemolyticum
Bordetella pertussis
Candida albicans
Corynebacterium diphtheria
Escherichia coli
Fusobacterium necrophorum
Klebsiella pneumoniae

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5
Haemophilus influenzae
Haemophilus parahaemolyticus
Moraxella catarrhalis
Moraxella lacunata
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
Neisseria lactamica
Neisseria meningitidis
Neisseria sicca
Neisseria subflava
Proteus vulgaris
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Serratia marcescens
Staphylococcus aureus (Cowan’s serotype I)
Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus epidermidis
Staphylococcus haemolyticus
Staphylococcus saprophyticus
Streptococcus groups B, C, D, F, G
Streptococcus oralis
Streptococcus salivarius
Streptococcus sanguis
Streptococcus mitis
Streptococcus mutans
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Yersinia enterocolitica
TESTPACK STREP A was found to perform as expected with both
positive and negative samples in the presence of benzocaine and
lidocaine, which are active ingredients found in a number of
commercially available sore throat treatments.
f. Assay cut-off
Using ATCC strain 12344, the limit of detection of TESTPACK STREP
A (at which Streptococci were detected 100% of the time) was shown
to be 1.05 x 105 CFU/swab.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with gold standard:
For visually positive SBA (Sheep Blood agar) plates, clinicians recorded the
density and growth of presumptive group A Streptococcus colonies. The
results from SBA culture and the corresponding TESTPACK STREP A rapid
results are compared below:
SBA plates
Pos Neg Total
Testpack Strep A (+) 122 4 126
Testpack Strep A (-) 3 240 243
Total 125 244 369
95% CI
Clinical sensitivity 122/125 (97.6%) 93.1-99.5%

[Table 1 on page 4]
	SBA plates		
	Pos	Neg	Total
Testpack Strep A (+)	122	4	126
Testpack Strep A (-)	3	240	243
Total	125	244	369

[Table 2 on page 4]
		95% CI
Clinical sensitivity	122/125 (97.6%)	93.1-99.5%

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 5
Clinical specificity 240/244 (95.9%) 95.9-99.6%
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
The clinical performance of TESTPACK STREP A was compared with
standard sheep blood agar culture. In a multi-center field evaluation, two
throat swabs were collected simultaneously from children and adults presenting
to clinics with symptoms of pharyngitis. One swab was tested by clinic staff
according to each clinic’s normal standard of care. The remaining swab was
retained for evaluation of TESTPACK STREP A and was either tested
immediately or stored at 2-8°C in transport tubes prior to testing. All swabs
were tested on the day of collection. Swabs retained for evaluation of
TESTPACK STREP A were used to inoculate a sheep blood agar (SBA) plate,
prior to being tested using the TESTPACK STREP A test. Plates were
incubated for 24-48 hours at 35°C with 5-10% CO2. Presumptive group A
Streptococcus colonies on SBA culture plates were confirmed using a
commercially available Streptococcal latex grouping test. Results were
obtained for 369 (335 pediatric and 34 adult) patients, of which 125 were found
positive by standard SBA culture and 244 were found negative. The sensitivity
of the TESTPACK STREP A test was 97.6% when compared to standard SBA
culture (95% confidence interval [CI]: (93.1-99.5%). The specificity of the
TESTPACK STREP A test was 98.4% when compared to standard SBA
culture (95% Confidence Interval [CI]: (95.9-99.6%).
b. Clinical specificity:
Refer to (e.) above
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b is not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
The lower limit of detection of this assay is 1.5 x 105 cfu/ml.
5. Expected values/Reference range: (Interpretive Criteria)
It is believed that approximately 19% of all upper respiratory tracts
infections are caused by Group A Streptococcus. A prevalence of
33.7% was observed in the clinical performance evaluation of
TESTPACK STREP A. Group A Strep associated pharyngitis displays
a seasonal variation and is most prevalent during the Winter and
early Spring. Certain populations are at higher risk of infection, for
example, schools, nursing homes and hospitals. Clustering of cases occurs.
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
Deleted: Page Break

[Table 1 on page 5]
Clinical specificity	240/244 (95.9%)	95.9-99.6%