
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k051650
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification to Indications for Use and Intended Use of Dade Behring Stratus® CS
CKMB, troponin I and myoglobin assays to add: This method is for use by trained
health care professionals in the clinical laboratory and point of care (POC) settings.
CKMB and myoglobin assays renamed to Acute Care™ CKMB and Acute Care™
MYO.
C. Measurand:
MB isozyme of Creatine Kinase (CKMB)
Troponin I
Myoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Two-site sandwich immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase (CKMB) TestPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB CalPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB DilPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I (cTnI) TestPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ cTnI CalPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ cTnI DilPak
1

--- Page 2 ---
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Myoglobin (MYO) TestPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO CalPak
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO DilPak
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1215, Creatine phosphokinase/creatine kinase or isoenzymes test
system
21 CFR 866.5680, Myoglobin immunological test system
21 CFR 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JHX, Fluorometric method, CPK or isoenzymes
MMI, Immunoassay Method, Troponin Subunit
DDR, Myoglobin, antigen, antiserum, control
JIT, Calibrator, Secondary
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
Immunology (82)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use
2. Indication(s) for use:
CKMB
2

--- Page 3 ---
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB method is an in vitro diagnostic test for
the measurement of the MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase (ATP:Creatine N-
Phosphostransferase, E.C. No. 2.7.3.2) in heparinized plasma. Measurements of
CKMB are used in the diagnosis and treatment of myocardial infarction and
muscle diseases such as progressive, Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy. This
method is for use by trained health care professionals in the clinical laboratory
and point of care (POC) settings.
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB Calibrator (CKMB CalPak) is an in vitro
diagnostic product intended to be used for calibration of the Stratus® CS Acute
Care™ CKMB method.
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB Dilution Pak (CKMB DilPak) is an in
vitro diagnostic product intended to be used in conjunction with the Acute Care™
CKMB TestPak for the measurement of samples with elevated levels of CKMB.
Troponin I
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I method (cTnI) is an in vitro diagnostic
assay for the measurement of cardiac troponin I in heparinized plasma. Cardiac
troponin I measurements can be used as an aid in the diagnosis of acute
myocardial infarction (AMI). Cardiac troponin I can also be used as an aid in the
risk stratification of patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) with respect
to their relative risk of mortality. This method is for use by trained health care
professionals in the clinical laboratory and point of care (POC) settings.
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I Calibrator (cTnI CalPak) is an in vitro
diagnostic product intended to be used for calibration of the Stratus® CS Acute
Care™ Troponin I method.
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I Dilution Pak (cTnI DilPak) is an in
vitro diagnostic product intended to be used in conjunction with the Acute Care™
cTnI TestPak for the measurement of samples with elevated levels of cardiac
troponin I.
Myoglobin
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Myoglobin method (MYO) is an in vitro
diagnostic assay for the measurement of myoglobin in heparinized plasma.
Measurements of myoglobin aid in the rapid diagnosis of renal or heart disease,
e.g. myocardial infarction. This method is for use by trained health care
professionals in the clinical laboratory and point of care (POC) settings.
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Myoglobin Calibrator (MYO CalPak) is an in
vitro diagnostic product intended to be used for calibration of the Stratus® CS
Acute Care™ myoglobin method.
3

--- Page 4 ---
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Myoglobin Dilution Pak (MYO DilPak) is an in
vitro diagnostic product intended to be used in conjunction with the Acute Care™
MYO TestPak for the measurement of samples with elevated Myoglobin levels.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Professional use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Stratus® CS STAT Fluorometric Analyzer
I. Device Description:
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase (CKMB) TestPak kit
contains 100 TestPaks composed of the following reagents: Alkaline phosphatase
(calf intestine enzyme) conjugated to anti-CKBB Fab (mouse monoclonal antibody),
ACES buffer, sodium azide < 0.1 %, dendrimer linked CKMB antibody (mouse IgG
monoclonal), 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate, diethanolamine buffer.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB CalPak is a refrigerated liquid product containing
human heart CKMB in a buffered bovine protein matrix with stabilizers and
preservative. The kit consists of five CalPaks at a single calibrator level. Each
CalPak contains calibrator reagent in three wells.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB DilPak is a refrigerated liquid product containing
buffered human protein matrix with stabilizers and 0.2 % sodium azide. The kit
consists of 5 DilPaks with diluent in one well.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I (cTnI) TestPak kit contains 100 TestPaks
composed of the following reagents: Alkaline phosphatase conjugated (calf intestine
enzyme) conjugated to anti-cardiac troponin I Fab (mouse monoclonal antibody),
buffer, sodium azide < 0.1 %, dendrimer linked cardiac troponin I antibody (mouse
IgG monoclonal), 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate, diethanolamine buffer.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ cTnI CalPak is a frozen liquid product containing native
human troponin complex in a human serum base with < 0.1 % sodium azide. The kit
consists of five CalPaks at a single calibrator level. Each CalPak contains calibrator
reagent in three wells.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ cTnI DilPak is a refrigerated liquid product containing
phosphate buffer with preservatives including < 0.1 % sodium azide. The kit consists
of 5 DilPaks with diluent in one well.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Myoglobin (MYO) TestPak kit contains 100 TestPaks
composed of the following reagents: Alkaline phosphatase (calf intestine enzyme)
4

--- Page 5 ---
conjugated to anti-MYO Fab (mouse monoclonal antibody), ACES buffer, sodium
azide < 0.1 %, dendrimer linked (mouse IgG monoclonal) MYO antibody, 4-
methylumbelliferyl phosphate, diethanolamine buffer.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO CalPak is a refrigerated liquid product containing
human heart myoglobin in a bovine albumin matrix with stabilizers and < 0.1 %
sodium azide. The kit consists of five CalPaks at a single calibrator level. Each
CalPak contains calibrator reagent in three wells.
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO DilPak is a refrigerated liquid product containing
buffered bovine protein matrix with stabilizers and 0.2 % sodium azide. The kit
consists of 5 DilPaks with diluent in one well.
Human source material was tested and found to be negative/non-reactive for
antibodies to HIV-1/2, HBsAg, and HCV.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Stratus® CS CKMB TestPak and DilPak
Stratus® CS CKMB CalPak
Stratus® CS cTnI Acute Care™ TestPak and DilPak
Stratus® CS cTnI CalPak
Stratus® CS MYO TestPak and DilPak
Stratus® CS MYO CalPak
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
Stratus® CS CKMB TestPak and DilPak k984067
k981099
Stratus® CS CKMB CalPak k981097
Stratus® CS cTnI Acute Care™ TestPak and DilPak k033487
k984093
k981098
5

--- Page 6 ---
Stratus® CS cTnI CalPak k012233
k983722
k012233
Stratus® CS MYO TestPak and DilPak k981102
k984056
Stratus® CS MYO CalPak k981101
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Test principle for Same Same
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
assays
Performance Same Same
characteristics for
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
assays
Composition and Same Same
traceability of CKMB,
cTnI and MYO
calibrators
Differences
Item Device Predicate
CKMB, cTnI and MYO Addition of Stratus® CS Not applicable
calibrators Acute Care to name
CKMB and MYO Addition of Stratus® CS Not applicable
assays. Acute Care to name
(Acute Care was added to
cTnI assay name in
k033487)
Indications for Use for Addition of: This method Not applicable
CKMB, cTnI and MYO is for use by trained
assays health care professionals
in the clinical laboratory
and point of care (POC)
settings.
Reproducibility Addition of Not applicable
reproducibility data from
ED, CCU and Central
Laboratory to labeling
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Test principle for
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
assays			Same			Same		
Performance
characteristics for
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
assays			Same			Same		
Composition and
traceability of CKMB,
cTnI and MYO
calibrators			Same			Same		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
calibrators			Addition of Stratus® CS
Acute Care to name			Not applicable		
CKMB and MYO
assays.			Addition of Stratus® CS
Acute Care to name
(Acute Care was added to
cTnI assay name in
k033487)			Not applicable		
Indications for Use for
CKMB, cTnI and MYO
assays			Addition of: This method
is for use by trained
health care professionals
in the clinical laboratory
and point of care (POC)
settings.			Not applicable		
Reproducibility			Addition of
reproducibility data from
ED, CCU and Central
Laboratory to labeling			Not applicable		

--- Page 7 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Correlation Addition of POC data Not applicable
subset regression
statistics to labeling
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-T2
L. Test Principle:
CKMB
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ CKMB method is a two-site sandwich assay based
upon solid phase Radial Partition Immunoassay (RPIA) technology. Dendrimer
linked monoclonal CKMB antibody is added to the center portion of a square piece of
glass fiber paper in the CKMB TestPak. Sample is then added onto the paper where
it reacts with the immobilized anti-CKMB antibody. After a short incubation, a
conjugate consisting of enzyme labeled monoclonal antibody directed against a
distinct antigenic site on the B subunit of the CKMB molecule is pipetted onto the
reaction zone of the paper. During the second incubation period, enzyme-labeled
antibody reacts with the bound CKMB, forming an antibody-antigen-labeled antibody
sandwich. The unbound labeled antibody is later eluted from the field of view of the
Stratus® CS analyzer by applying a substrate wash solution to the center of the
reaction zone. By including substrate for the enzyme within the wash solution,
initiation of enzyme activity occurs simultaneously with the wash. The enzymatic rate
of the bound fraction increases directly with the concentration of CKMB in the
sample. The reaction rate is measured by an optical system that monitors the reaction
rate via front surface fluorescence. All data analysis functions are performed by the
microprocessor within the analyzer.
Troponin I (cTnI)
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ Troponin I method is a two-site sandwich assay based
upon solid phase Radial Partition Immunoassay (RPIA) technology. Dendrimer
linked monoclonal antibody is added to the center portion of a square piece of glass
fiber paper in the cTnI TestPak. This antibody recognizes a distinct antigenic site on
the cardiac troponin I molecule. Sample is then added onto the paper where it reacts
with the immobilized antibody. After a short incubation, a conjugate consisting of
enzyme labeled monoclonal antibody directed against a second distinct antigenic site
on the cardiac troponin I molecule is pipetted onto the reaction zone of the paper.
During the second incubation period, enzyme-labeled antibody reacts with the bound
cardiac troponin I, forming an antibody-antigen-labeled antibody sandwich. The
unbound labeled antibody is later eluted from the field of view of the Stratus® CS
analyzer by applying a substrate wash solution to the center of the reaction zone. By
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Correlation			Addition of POC data
subset regression
statistics to labeling			Not applicable		

--- Page 8 ---
including substrate for the enzyme within the wash solution, initiation of enzyme
activity occurs simultaneously with the wash. The enzymatic rate of the bound
fraction increases directly with the concentration of cardiac troponin I in the sample.
The reaction rate is measured by an optical system that monitors the reaction rate via
front surface fluorescence. All data analysis functions are performed by the
microprocessor within the analyzer.
Myoglobin (MYO)
The Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO method is a two-site sandwich assay based
upon solid phase Radial Partition Immunoassay (RPIA) technology. Dendrimer
linked monoclonal antibody is added to the center portion of a square piece of glass
fiber paper in the MYO TestPak. This antibody recognizes a distinct antigenic site on
the myoglobin molecule. Sample is then added onto the paper where it reacts with the
immobilized anti-myoglobin antibody. After a short incubation, a conjugate
consisting of enzyme labeled monoclonal antibody directed against a second distinct
antigenic site on the myoglobin molecule is pipetted onto the reaction zone of the
paper. During the second incubation period, enzyme-labeled antibody reacts with the
bound myoglobin, forming an antibody-antigen-labeled antibody sandwich. The
unbound labeled antibody is later eluted from the field of view of the Stratus® CS
analyzer by applying a substrate wash solution to the center of the reaction zone. By
including substrate for the enzyme within the wash solution, initiation of enzyme
activity occurs simultaneously with the wash. The enzymatic rate of the bound
fraction increases directly with the concentration of myoglobin in the sample. The
reaction rate is measured by an optical system that monitors the reaction rate via front
surface fluorescence. All data analysis functions are performed by the microprocessor
within the analyzer.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established for predicate devices
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Previously established for predicate devices
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Previously established for predicate calibrators. The calibrators (Stratus® CS
Acute Care™ CKMB CalPak, Stratus® CS Acute Care™ cTnI CalPak, and
Stratus® CS Acute Care™ MYO CalPak) are identical to the predicate
calibrators. Labeling changes reflect the name change in addition to minor
8

--- Page 9 ---
format changes.
d. Detection limit:
Previously established for predicate devices
e. Analytical specificity:
Previously established for predicate devices
f. Assay cut-off:
Previously established for predicate devices
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Previously established for predicate devices
b. Matrix comparison:
Previously established for predicate devices
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Previously established for predicate devices
b. Clinical specificity:
Previously established for predicate devices
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
POC Studies
Method comparison and precision analyses were performed at two external
evaluation sites: York Hospital in York, Pennsylvania and Western
Pennsylvania Hospital in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. At each of the two sites,
three Stratus® CS analyzers were installed, one in each of these three different
locations: clinical laboratory (LAB), Emergency Department (ED) and
Cardiac Care (CCU). The data supports use of these products by trained
health professionals in the clinical laboratory and point of care (POC) settings.
The following table represents the comparison between the POC sites vs. the
9

--- Page 10 ---
LAB site.
n Slope Intercept r Range of samples
CKMB 147 0.95 0.56 0.990 0.3–123.9 ng/mL
cTnI 149 0.99 -0.04 0.990 0.0-43.3 ng/mL
MYO 146 1.01 4.0 0.987 15-829 ng/mL
The following table represents the % CV for total imprecision for the POC
sites vs. the LAB site for CKMB. Specimens at each level were analyzed in
quadruplicate for 5 runs.
LAB % CV CCU ED
Control Level 1 3.4 6.0 3.5
Control Level 2 4.1 4.8 3.5
The following table represents the % CV for total imprecision for the POC
sites vs. the LAB site for cTnI. Specimens at each level were analyzed in
quadruplicate for 5 runs.
LAB % CV CCU ED
Control Level 1 4.1 4.5 3.6
Control Level 2 3.7 4.2 3.4
The following table represents the % CV for total imprecision for the POC
sites vs. the LAB site for MYO. Specimens at each level were analyzed in
quadruplicate for 5 runs.
LAB % CV CCU ED
Control Level 1 4.2 6.9 5.6
Control Level 2 4.6 5.2 4.8
4. Clinical cut-off:
Previously established for predicate devices
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Previously established for predicate devices
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
	n	Slope	Intercept	r	Range of samples
CKMB	147	0.95	0.56	0.990	0.3–123.9 ng/mL
cTnI	149	0.99	-0.04	0.990	0.0-43.3 ng/mL
MYO	146	1.01	4.0	0.987	15-829 ng/mL

[Table 2 on page 10]
	LAB % CV	CCU	ED
Control Level 1	3.4	6.0	3.5
Control Level 2	4.1	4.8	3.5

[Table 3 on page 10]
	LAB % CV	CCU	ED
Control Level 1	4.1	4.5	3.6
Control Level 2	3.7	4.2	3.4

[Table 4 on page 10]
	LAB % CV	CCU	ED
Control Level 1	4.2	6.9	5.6
Control Level 2	4.6	5.2	4.8