
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k051841
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative, lateral flow immunoassay
E. Applicant:
WHPM, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
WH Accu Test™ One-Step Urine/Serum Combo Pregnancy Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR section 862.1155 Human chorionic gonadotropin test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JHI
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Formatted: Indent: Left: 36 pt
The WH Accu Test™ One-Step Urine/Serum Combo Pregnancy Test is a test for
the qualitative determination of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in urine or
serum to aid in the early detection of pregnancy. For Laboratory Professional Use
Only.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Formatted: Indent: Left: 36 pt
The WH Accu Test™ One-Step Urine/Serum Combo Pregnancy Test is a test for
the qualitative determination of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in urine or
serum to aid in the early detection of pregnancy. For Laboratory Professional Use
Only.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Deleted: .
For Laboratory Professional Use Only Formatted: Indent: Left: 36 pt
4. Special instrument requirements:
Formatted: Indent: Left: 36 pt
None Deleted: n
I. Device Description:
Each WH Accu Test™ One-Step Urine/Serum Combo Pregnancy Test kit contains 25
sealed foil pouches. Each pouch contains a test device and a disposable plastic
dropper. The test device contains goat polyclonal anti-HCG coated membrane and a
pad containing dye-conjugated mouse monoclonal anti-HCG in a protein matrix with
0.1% sodium azide.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ACON Laboratories, Inc. HCG One Step Pregnancy Test (Urine/Serum)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k993065
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Deleted: ¶
Similarities
Item k051841 Predicate: ACON
k993065
Intended Use One-step test for Same
qualitative detection of
hCG in urine or serum;
for Laboratory
Professional Use
Test Principle Lateral flow Same
immunoassay
Result read time 3 minutes for urine Same
5 minutes for serum
Sample type Urine or serum Urine or serum
Sensitivity 25 mIU/mL 25 mIU/mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Deleted: t applicable
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
The WH Accu Test™ One-Step Urine/Serum Combo Pregnancy test employs a
combination of dye conjugated monoclonal antibody and polyclonal solid phase
antibody to selectively identify hCG in serum and urine. The sample (~100 µL) is
added to the specimen well of the test device using the specimen dropper provided.
As the sample flows through the absorbent portion of the device, the antibody-dye
conjugate binds to the hCG if it is present in the sample, forming an antibody-antigen
complex. The complex binds to the anti-hCG antibody in the reaction zone,
producing a pink-rose colored band in the test area when the concentration of hCG is
equal to or greater than 25 mIU/mL. Absence of a colored line indicates a negative
result. A colored line should also appear in the control area of the device, to indicate
the test was performed correctly.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was confirmed by testing the device with three different levels
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item	k051841		Predicate: ACON	
			k993065	
Intended Use
Test Principle
Result read time
Sample type
Sensitivity	One-step test for
qualitative detection of
hCG in urine or serum;
for Laboratory
Professional Use
Lateral flow
immunoassay
3 minutes for urine
5 minutes for serum
Urine or serum
25 mIU/mL	Same
Same
Same
Urine or serum
25 mIU/mL		

--- Page 4 ---
of spiked hCG in both male serum and urine: 0 (unspiked), 25 and 100
mIU/mL. For each test sample 12 replicates (n=12) were performed. The 0
mIU/mL serum and urine both gave negative results, while the 25 and 100
mIU/mL test sample in serum and urine all gave positive results.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The assay was standardized using the hCG WHO 3rd International Standard
75/537.
Stability studies are on-going and are performed for each lot of product. A
stability protocol was provided. The data generated to date support a shelf-life
of 24 months when the product is stored at 2-30°C.
d. Detection limit:
Five male urine and five serum samples were each spiked with five
concentrations of hCG (0, 10, 25, 50 and 100 mIU/mL) and tested. All the 0
and 10 mIU/mL test samples were negative while all of the 25, 50, and 100
mIU/mL test samples were positive. A 25 mIU/mL cutoff is claimed for
serum and urine.
e. Analytical specificity:
Luteinizing hormone (500 mIU/mL), follicle stimulating hormone (1000
mIU/ml) and thyroid stimulating hormone (1000 µIU/mL) were added to hCG
negative and hCG positive (25 mIU/mL hCG added) male serum and urine.
The potential cross-reactants spiked into hCG negative serum and urine all
gave negative results in the assay. The potential cross-reactants spiked into
the sera and urines containing 25 mIU/mL hCG all gave positive results.
Common prescription and over the counter drugs, as well as hemoglobin,
protein, bilirubin and triglycerides were also tested in the assay at specified
concentrations, in both hCG negative and positive samples. The potential
interferents were tested in both urine and serum, except for protein (urine
only) and triglycerides (serum only). No interference was observed at the
concentrations tested.
The Prozone or “hook” effect was studied by testing samples containing high
concentrations of hCG using the assay. Urine and serum specimens from
normal, non-pregnant donors were spiked with up to 1,000 IU/mL of hCG and
tested. All test samples up to 1,000 IU/mL gave a positive result, indicating
4

--- Page 5 ---
the absence of a hook effect at this level or below.
f. Assay cut-off:
See (d) Detection Limit above
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Matched urine and serum specimens from 102 individuals were tested using
both the WH Accu Test and ACON Laboratories One Step Pregnancy test.
The samples were obtained with informed consent from patients seeking
confirmation of pregnancy. Of these specimens, 57 were positive and 45
negative with both the WH Accu Test and the predicate device.
b. Matrix comparison:
When comparing the 102 matched serum and urine specimens, there was
100% agreement using the WH Accu Test.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are based on literature. The labeling states the following:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Negative results are expected in healthy, non-pregnant women and healthy men.
Healthy pregnant women have hCG present in their urine and serum specimens.
The amount of hCG will vary greatly with gestational age and between
individuals.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
6