
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k051457
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for ceruloplasmin, kappa light chains and lambda light chains
D. Type of Test:
Calibration materials
E. Applicant:
SENTINEL CH. S.r.1.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Plasmaproteins Cal 3x
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862. 1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
JIX
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Sentinel Plasmaproteins Cal 3x is a device intended for medical purpose
for use in ceruloplasmin, kappa light chains and lambda light chains assay to
establish points of reference that are used in the determination of values in the

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
measurement of ceruloplasmin, kappa and lambda light chains in human
serum and plasma.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Automated, semi-automated, and manual clinical chemistry systems
I. Device Description:
The Sentinel Plasmaproteins Cal 3x is a liquid, ready-to-use calibrator prepared from
plasmatic plasmaproteins in human-based serum. It consists of 4x1 mL bottles of
aqueous material containing ceruloplasmin, kappa light chains and lambda light
chains in a human serum matrix. This material is stable until the date printed on the
label when stored as directed. Calibrator traceability was certified to CRM 470
(Certified Reference Material).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Calibrator for Automated Systems (C.f.a.s.) Proteins
2. Predicate K number(s):
k011226
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Plasmaproteins Cal 3x C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for
is for use for the automated systems)
calibration of the Proteins is for use in the
plasmaprotein tests calibration of quantitative
listed in the Assigned Roche methods on Roche
Concentrations Table clinical chemistry analyzers
using as specified in the enclosed
immunoturbidimetric value sheet.
methods.
Matrix Liquid- ready to use Liquid- ready to use
Storage 2 to 80C 2 to 80C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Plasmaproteins Cal 3x
is for use for the
calibration of the
plasmaprotein tests
listed in the Assigned
Concentrations Table
using
immunoturbidimetric
methods.			C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for
automated systems)
Proteins is for use in the
calibration of quantitative
Roche methods on Roche
clinical chemistry analyzers
as specified in the enclosed
value sheet.		
Matrix			Liquid- ready to use			Liquid- ready to use		
Storage			2 to 80C			2 to 80C		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators (February 22, 1999)
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
The Sentinel Plasmaproteins Cal 3x calibrator traceability was certified to
CRM 470 (Certified Reference Material). The calibrator shelf-life stability
was determined by the recovery method on one lot of Plasmaproteins Cal 3x
stored at 2 – 8 0 C, compared with the value assigned at manufacturing time.
Percent recovery was calculated for each calibrator level by dividing the result
in conventional units (mg/dL) of the test calibrators by the assigned value
(mg/mL) and multiplying the result by 100. Acceptance criteria is 100±10%.
Data support a shelf life of 25 months. Claim will be 24 months.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable)
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirement of 21 CFR part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.