
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k051592
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of arterial blood as a sample type to previously cleared Accu-Chek Go
System. No changes have been made to the Accu-Chek Go System meter.
C. Measurand:
Glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Accu-Chek Go test system
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.1345 Glucose test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NBW, LFR
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry -75
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Accu-Chek Go system is designed to quantitatively measure the
concentration of glucose in whole blood by persons with diabetes or by health
care professionals for monitoring glucose in the home or in health care facilities.
The device is indicated for professional use and over-the-counter sale.
Professionals may use the test strips to test capillary, venous and arterial blood
samples; lay use is limited to capillary whole blood testing.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter and professional use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Accu-Chek Go meter
I. Device Description:
The Accu-Chek Go system is designed to quantitatively measure the concentration of
glucose in whole blood. The meter’s software converts the test results into a value
that correlates to the plasma glucose concentration. The test system retail package
includes a meter, test strips, and control materials. A lancet device is provided within
the kit as well.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Accu-Chek Go System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k040796
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Test principle similar similar
Reportable range 10-600 mg/dL similar
Hematocrit range 25-65% similar
Reagent composition for similar similar
test strips
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The Accu-Chek Go The Accu-Chek Go
system is designed to system is designed to
quantitatively measure quantitatively measure
the concentration of the concentration of
glucose in whole blood glucose in whole blood
by persons with diabetes by persons with diabetes
or by health care or by health care
professionals for professionals for
monitoring glucose in the monitoring glucose in the
home or in health care home or in health care
facilities. The device is facilities. The device is
indicated for professional indicated for professional
use and over-the-counter use and over-the-counter
sale. sale.
Professionals may use the Professionals may use
test strips to test the test strips to test
capillary, venous and capillary and venous
arterial blood samples; blood samples; lay use is
lay use is limited to limited to capillary
capillary whole blood whole blood testing.
testing.
Acceptable sample types Capillary whole blood Capillary whole blood
from a finger stick or from a finger stick or
AST site. Venous and AST site. Venous blood
arterial blood may also be may also be used only if
used only if drawn from drawn from health care
health care professionals. professionals.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Test principle			similar			similar		
Reportable range			10-600 mg/dL			similar		
Hematocrit range			25-65%			similar		
Reagent composition for
test strips			similar			similar		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Accu-Chek Go
system is designed to
quantitatively measure
the concentration of
glucose in whole blood
by persons with diabetes
or by health care
professionals for
monitoring glucose in the
home or in health care
facilities. The device is
indicated for professional
use and over-the-counter
sale.
Professionals may use the
test strips to test
capillary, venous and
arterial blood samples;
lay use is limited to
capillary whole blood
testing.			The Accu-Chek Go
system is designed to
quantitatively measure
the concentration of
glucose in whole blood
by persons with diabetes
or by health care
professionals for
monitoring glucose in the
home or in health care
facilities. The device is
indicated for professional
use and over-the-counter
sale.
Professionals may use
the test strips to test
capillary and venous
blood samples; lay use is
limited to capillary
whole blood testing.		
Acceptable sample types			Capillary whole blood
from a finger stick or
AST site. Venous and
arterial blood may also be
used only if drawn from
health care professionals.			Capillary whole blood
from a finger stick or
AST site. Venous blood
may also be used only if
drawn from health care
professionals.		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
The test principle is a glucose dye oxidoreductase mediator reaction. In step one,
glucose is oxidized by the Pyrroloquinoline quinine (PQQ) dependent enzyme
glucoe-dye-oxidoreductase (EC.1.1.99.17) to gluconolactate and the reduction
equivalents are transferred to the enzyme-bound PQQ to give PQQH In step two,
2.
the enzyme transfers the reduction equivalents from PQQH to the oxidized form of
2
the mediator Bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)-(4-hydroxyiminocyclohexa-2,5-dienylidene)-
ammonium chloride. In step three the reduced form of the mediator reduces the
indicator 2,18-phosphomolybdic acid to produce the color heteropolyblue.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established for predicate device
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Previously established for predicate device
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The hexokinase/glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase method used as the
reference method for the arterial sample testing was credentialed by the
National Reference System for the Clinical laboratory (NRSCL) Council on
18 January 1979 according to the criteria established for the acceptance of a
reference method as explained in NRSCL13-P, The reference System for the
Clinical Laboratory: Criteria for Development and credentialing of Methods
and Materials for harmonization of results; Proposed Guideline.
d. Detection limit:
Previously established for predicate device
e. Analytical specificity:
Previously established for predicate device
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
4

--- Page 5 ---
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Previously established for predicate device
b. Matrix comparison:
In this submission, arterial blood was added as a sample type. A study was
performed to evaluate the extent to which results obtained from the Accu-
Chek Go system correlate to whole blood glucose reference that has been
converted to a plasma-like result, using arterial whole blood. The clinical data
demonstrates that the performance of the Accu-Chek Go correlates with the
laboratory plasma glucose reference test method, glucose hexokinase.
In the study, arterial samples tested using the Accu-Chek Go meter were
compared to results obtained from a reference method, the
hexokinase/glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase method. The study utilized
two external sites and four test strip lots. Arterial blood from 233 patients was
transferred to lithium heparin tubes. The blood was then transferred directly
to the test strips. The sample was also deproteinized and tested with the
reference method. The following regression formula was obtained from the
study: y = 1.045x + 0.3, r = 0.992. In addition, 98.3% of the results were
within ± 15 mg/dL for results less than or equal to 100 mg/dL and ± 15 % for
results greater than 100 mg/dL. This exceeds Roche’s acceptance criteria that
95 % of the results be within this range.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values were previously established for the predicate device. The fasting
adult blood glucose range for a non-diabetic is between 74 mg/dL and less than
106 mg/dL.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6