
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k051376
B. Purpose for Submission:
The purpose of this premarket notification is to provide results of a usability study
performed to assess the ability of users to effectively run and distinguish between glucose
and cholesterol tests offered on the AccuChek Instant Plus Dual Testing System, which is
already being marketed. These tests were previously cleared individually under k944459
and k944458.
C. Measurand:
Glucose and Cholesterol
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, electrochemical biosensor
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
AccuChek Instant Plus Dual Testing System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345 – Glucose test sytem
21CFR 862.1175 – Cholesterol (total) test system
2. Classification:
glucose - Class II
cholesterol - Class I

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
NBW, System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over The Counter
CGA, Glucose Oxidase, Glucose
CHH, Enzymatic Esterase-Oxidase, Cholesterol
4. Panel:
Chemistry 75
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Roche AccuChek Instant Plus Dual testing System is intended to be used for the
quantitative measurement of glucose and cholesterol in capillary whole blood.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Roche AccuChek Instant Plus Dual Testing System is designed to quantitatively
measure cholesterol and glucose in capillary whole blood. The AccuChek Instant
Glucose Test Strips are for use in home and professional settings for testing glucose in
whole blood. The AccuChek Instant Plus Cholesterol Test Strips are for use by
healthcare professionals and for home use by people with diabetes for cholesterol
screening.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s): N/A
4. Special instrument requirements: N/A
I. Device Description:
The AccuChek Instant Plus Dual Testing System consists of a blood glucose/cholesterol
meter, glucose test strips, and cholesterol test strips.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AccuChek Instant Glucose Test System
AccuChek Instant Plus Cholesterol Test System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):

--- Page 3 ---
k944459
k944458
3. Comparison with predicate:
The meter and test strips have not been modified. They are exactly the same as those
previously cleared individually.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None
L. Test Principle:
The test systems use electrochemical biosensor technology. When blood is applied to the test
strip, reagents on the strip react with the blood and a current is generated. The monitors
employ amperometric technology to measure the glucose concentrations in the blood sample
by measuring the amount of current that is generated when glucose reacts with the glucose
oxidase on the glucose test strip and with esterase oxidase on the cholesterol test strip.. The
result is the generation of current across the electrodes, which is proportional to the
concentration of analyte present in the whole blood sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision/reproducibility was cleared with the original 510(k)s for the Roche
AccuChek Instant Glucose Test System (k944459) and the Roche AccuChek Instant
Plus Cholesterol Test System (k944458).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The linear range was cleared with the original 510(k)s for the Roche AccuChek
Instant Glucose Test System (k944459) and the Roche AccuChek Instant Plus
Cholesterol Test System (k944458).
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Detection limits of glucose is 20 – 600 mg/dL

--- Page 4 ---
Detection limits of cholesterol is 150-300 mg/dL
The detection limits were cleared with the original 510(k)s for the Roche AccuChek
Instant Glucose Test System (k944459) and the Roche AccuChek Instant Plus
Cholesterol Test System (k944458).
e. Analytical specificity:
The analytical specificity was cleared with the original 510(k)s for the Roche
AccuChek Instant Glucose Test System (k944459) and the Roche AccuChek Instant
Plus Cholesterol Test System (k944458).
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical accuracy was demonstrated in the original 510(k)s for the Roche AccuChek
Instant Glucose Test System (K944459) and the Roche AccuChek Instant Plus
Cholesterol Test System (K944458).
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Thirty subjects each performed two glucose and two cholesterol tests in alternating order
using the AccuChek Instant Plus Dual Testing System. The study showed that users had
no difficulty in differentiating between the two assays. Users identified and performed
the tests correctly 100% of the time for N=30 users and N=120 tests. This met the study
acceptance criteria of 90% or better within 95% confidence interval.

--- Page 5 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.