
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K051597
B. Purpose for Submission:
To seek clearance for a modification to their Stratus® CS D-Dimer (DDMR) Assay
C. Analyte:
D-Dimer
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative solid phase radial partition immunoassay (RIPA)
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Stratus® CS D-Dimer (DDMR) Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7320
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
DAP
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The D-dimer (DDMR) method on the Stratus® CS STAT fluorometric
analyzer is an in vitro diagnostic test for the quantitative measurement of
cross-linked fibrin degradation products (D-Dimer) in human citrated or
heparinized plasma.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Stratus® CS D-Dimer (DDMR) Assay is intended for use as an aid in the
diagnosis of venous thromboembolism (VTE), deep vein thrombosis (DVT),
or pulmonary embolism (PE).
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument Requirements:
The Advanced D-Dimer is intended for use with the Dade Behring Stratus®
CS STAT fluorometric analyzer
I. Device Description:
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring Stratus® CS D-Dimer (DDMR)

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
2. Predicate K number(s):
K022976
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Principle Solid phase radial partition Same
immunoassay (RIPA)
Antibody Mouse monoclonal Same
Measuring Range 6 to 5000 ng/mL Same
Sample Citrate plasma or Same
Requirement heparinized plasma
Instrumentation Stratus® CS STAT Same
fluorometric analyzer
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Quantitative determination Quantitative determination
of cross-linked fibrin of cross-linked fibrin
degradation products degradation products
containing D-Dimer in containing D-Dimer in
human plasma and as an aid human plasma.
in the diagnosis of VTE.
Cut-off 450 ng/mL N/A
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle: The assay is a two-site sandwich assay based upon solid phase
Radial Partition Immunoassay (RIPA) technology. A d-dimer specific monoclonal
antibody is added to the center portion of a square piece of glass fiber paper. Sample is
then added to the paper, and reacts with the antibody. A conjugate consisting of an
enzyme-labeled monoclonal antibody that is directed against a second antigenic site on
the d-dimer molecule is added onto the reaction zone of the paper. The enzyme labeled
antibody reacts with the bound d-dimer, forming an antibody-antigen-labeled antibody
sandwich. The unbound labeled antibody is washed away. Because the wash solution
contains substrate for the enzyme, initiation of enzyme activity occurs simultaneously
with the wash. The enzymatic rate of the bound faction increases directly with the
concentration of D-dimer in the sample. The reaction rate is measured by an optical
system that monitors the reaction rate via front surface fluorescence. All data analysis
functions are performed by the microprocessor within the analyzer.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
3 levels of citrated human plasma pools were tested in duplicate for
20 days. Within run and total coefficients of variation (%CV) were

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Principle			Solid phase radial partition
immunoassay (RIPA)			Same		
Antibody			Mouse monoclonal			Same		
Measuring Range			6 to 5000 ng/mL			Same		
Sample
Requirement			Citrate plasma or
heparinized plasma			Same		
Instrumentation			Stratus® CS STAT
fluorometric analyzer			Same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Quantitative determination
of cross-linked fibrin
degradation products
containing D-Dimer in
human plasma and as an aid
in the diagnosis of VTE.			Quantitative determination
of cross-linked fibrin
degradation products
containing D-Dimer in
human plasma.		
Cut-off			450 ng/mL			N/A		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
calculated following guidelines outlined in NCCLS Guideline EP5-
A. With-in run reproducibility <4.0%, total reproducibility <6.0%
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
An extensive list of substances were found to have no significant
effect (<10%) on the DDMR method when added t a plasma pool
containing ~400 ng/mL of D-dimer. Users should refer to the
package insert for this information.
Antibody specificity was demonstrated through cross reactivity
testing of fibrinogen and the following fibrinogen degradation
fragments D and E. Results demonstrated no significant effect on
the assay.
f. Assay cut-off:
Assay cut-off of 450 ng/mL was established through ROC curves.
The study was performed by the manufacturer using 152 negative
samples, and 26 positives. PE was ruled out for confirmed by
ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) lung scan, pulmonary angiography
scintigraphy and/or spiral CT. DVT was ruled out or confirmed by
compression ultrasonography.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies: Samples were collected from out-patients at three
sites, presenting to the emergency department or thromboembolism
unit with suspected DVT or PE. Diagnosis was determined by
validated diagnostic algorithms utilized by each facility. A total of
832 patients (site 1 =394 patients, site 2 = 135, site 3 = 303),
between the ages of 19 and 99, was tested on the Dade Behring
Stratus® CS D-Dimer (DDMR). Sensitivity, Specificity, Negative
Predictive Value, and Positive Predictive Value, was determined
based on the previously determined cut-off value of 450 ng/mL.
a. Clinical sensitivity:

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
Site 1 93 %
Site 2 93
Site 3 96
Combined 94
c. Clinical specificity:
Site 1 53%
Site 2 56
Site 3 50
Combined 52
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
NPV
Site 1 94
Site 2 97
Site 3 96
Combined 95
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Site 1	93 %
Site 2	93
Site 3	96
Combined	94

[Table 2 on page 4]
Site 1	53%
Site 2	56
Site 3	50
Combined	52

[Table 3 on page 4]
Site 1	94
Site 2	97
Site 3	96
Combined	95