
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052697
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the Heparin/Platelet Factor 4 Antibody Serum Panel controls
C. Measurand:
Heparin PF4 Antibody
D. Type of Test:
Assayed control
E. Applicant:
Akers Biosciences, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Heparin/Platelet Factor 4 Antibody Serum Panel
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Heparin/Platelet Factor 4 Antibody Serum Panel is an assayed control,
intended for use as a serum QC control to monitor and evaluate precision and
accuracy of the (qualitative) PIFA® Heparin/PF4 Antibody Assay. Included are
both confirmed positive and negative control panel members.
The panel members enable the users to evaluate their PIFA® Heparin PF4
Antibody Assay test systems and provide comprehensive data for comparative
analysis.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Assayed controls available for use as a QC panel for routine quality checks or as a
qualification panel enabling users to evaluate their PIFA® Heparin PF4 Antibody
Assay test systems providing comprehensive data for comparative analysis.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Serum control panel members are identified as positive and negative. These are
selected for specific use on the PIFA Heparin PF4 Antibody Assay test.
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
The Heparin/Platelet Factor 4 Antibody Serum Panel is a well-defined serum sample
identified as a positive or negative sample against the PIFA® Heparin/Platelet Factor
4 Antibody Assay.
The panels are assembled from its repository of frozen serum samples, with reactivity
as determined by the GTI® PF4 Enhanced ELISA test. No preservatives are added.
Samples are chosen to provide a broad range of reactivity and to include samples with
both low and high antibody levels.
Two types of kit configurations are available:
Two-Member QC Panel – consists of one positive and one negative serum each
approximately 150 µl in volume. Reagents normally used for routine quality checks
and to help identify whether technical errors or reagent failures have occurred.
Multi-Member Qualification Panel – consists of 10 positive and two negative sera
each approximately 150 µl in volume. Reagents are normally used for qualifying and
evaluating their PIFA® Heparin PF4 Antibody Assay test systems where a broad
2

--- Page 3 ---
range of reactivity levels is desired. They provide comprehensive data for
comparative analysis in regard to sensitivity, specificity, reproducibility and lot-to-lot
variability. Data for comparative values on all panel members are available for
reference only.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
GTI® PF4® ELISA Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K983379
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Characteristic Heparin PF4 Antibody Serum GTI PF4 ENHANCED®
Panel ELISA (controls provided
with test)
Test type for control use Qualitative Qualitative
Sample Matrix Serum Serum
Testing Environment Professional Professional
Test Determination for ≥ 0.40 ≥ 0.40
Positive
Test Determination for ≤ 0.40 ≤ 0.40
Negative
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Characteristic Heparin PF4 Antibody Serum GTI PF4 ENHANCED®
Panel ELISA (controls provided
with test)
Indications for Use Assayed controls available for use Assayed controls included with
as a QC panel for routine quality each test. Run to help
checks or as a qualification panel determine if technical errors or
enabling users to evaluate their reagent failures have occurred.
PIFA® Heparin PF4 Antibody
Assay test systems providing
comprehensive data for
comparative analysis.
Positive Control ≥ 0.50 ≥ 1.80
Determination Level (OD
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Characteristic			Heparin PF4 Antibody Serum
Panel			GTI PF4 ENHANCED®
ELISA (controls provided
with test)		
Test type for control use			Qualitative			Qualitative		
Sample Matrix			Serum			Serum		
Testing Environment			Professional			Professional		
Test Determination for
Positive			≥ 0.40			≥ 0.40		
Test Determination for
Negative			≤ 0.40			≤ 0.40		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Characteristic			Heparin PF4 Antibody Serum
Panel			GTI PF4 ENHANCED®
ELISA (controls provided
with test)		
Indications for Use			Assayed controls available for use
as a QC panel for routine quality
checks or as a qualification panel
enabling users to evaluate their
PIFA® Heparin PF4 Antibody
Assay test systems providing
comprehensive data for
comparative analysis.			Assayed controls included with
each test. Run to help
determine if technical errors or
reagent failures have occurred.		
Positive Control
Determination Level (OD			≥ 0.50			≥ 1.80		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
reading)
Negative Control ≤ 0.32 ≤ 0.30
Determination Level (OD
reading)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision
Prior to use for testing, a single-use aliquot is thawed in a 37° C water bath. The
GTI® PF4® Enhanced ELISA Assay is initially utilized to characterize each serum
member.
Five serum samples were tested within the course of a 24-hour period by a single
laboratory technician. Each serum sample was tested 10 times on both assays.
The PIFA® Heparin/PF4 Rapid Assay provides a qualitative (positive/negative)
results that consistently correlates with the O.D. values received when samples
were run on the GTI® PF4® ELISA Assay.
GTI® PF4 Enhanced® ELISA Assay
Positive Negative
PIFA® H/PF4 Rapid Assay Positive 30 0
Negative 0 20
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
reading)								
Negative Control
Determination Level (OD
reading)			≤ 0.32			≤ 0.30		

--- Page 5 ---
A stability study and reproducibility study were conducted in conjunction to test
the ability of the Heparin/Platelet Factor 4 Antibody Serum Panel to remain stable
after a number of freeze-thaw cycles.
Six specimens, each identified with an individual lot number, were utilized for the
study covering positive and negative samples. Five vials of each sample were
prepared for testing and observed over the course of five days by a single
laboratory technician. Initially, all samples (n=30), were stored under deep freeze
conditions. On day one of the study, the 30 vials were quick-thawed by
submersion into a 37° C water bath.
A single vial of each identified specimen was utilized on a specific testing
interval. From a single vial, two aliquots from each of the six specimens were
tested on the PIFA® Heparin/PF4 Rapid Assay. After the tests were completed,
the vials utilized for the test interval were segregated from those not tested and all
vials were flash-frozen. The vials formerly utilized were kept in deep-freeze
conditions for the remainder of the study. The same procedure was performed on
each test interval period thereafter until the five days were complete. At the end
of the five days, all vials were retrieved from deep-freeze conditions, quick-
thawed, and utilized in the same manner through testing with the GTI® PF4®
Enhanced ELISA Assay.
From testing each of the characterized samples in duplicate over a period of five
days through a varying number of freeze-thaw cycles, the Heparin/Platelet Factor
4 Antibody Serum Panel consistently produced expected results from the PIFA®
Heparin/PF4 Rapid Assay. In addition, the results consistently correlated with the
O.D. values received when samples were run on the GTI® assay, indicating the
ability of the serum panel member to remain stable through numerous freeze-thaw
cycles. The PIFA® Heparin/PF4 Rapid Assay package insert states that more than
one additional freeze-thaw cycle must be validated by the user.
GTI® PF4 Enhanced® ELISA Assay
Positive Negative
PIFA® H/PF4 Rapid Assay Positive 40 0
Negative 0 20
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The PIFA® Heparin/PF4 Rapid Assay provides a qualitative (positive or negative)
result. A “positive” identified serum panel has O.D. values greater than or equal
to 0.500 as determined on the GTI® PF4 ELISA Assay. A “negative” identified
serum panel has O.D. values less than or equal to 0.320 as determined on the
GTI® PF4 ELISA Assay.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
6

--- Page 7 ---
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
7

--- Page 8 ---
8