
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K052499
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device(s)
C. Measurand:
Toxoplasma IgG antibodies & Toxoplasma IgM antibodies
D. Type of Test:
Chemiluminescence immunoassay
E. Applicant:
DiaSorin, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LIAISON® Toxo IgG Assay & LIAISON® Toxo IgM Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21CFR 866.3780; Toxoplasma gondii Serological Reagents
2. Classification: Class: II
3. Product code: LGD; Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay, Toxoplasma gondii
4. Panel: 83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
IgG Assay: The LIAISON® Toxo IgG assay uses chemiluminescent
immunoassay (CLIA) technology on the LIAISON® Analyzer (Catolog number
15970) for the the qualitative determination of specific IgG antibodies to
Toxoplasma gondii in human serum. The results of this assay can be used as an
aid in the assessment of the patient’s serological status to infection with
Toxoplasma gondii and in the determination of immune status of individuals
including pregnant women.
Caution: This assay has not been cleared/approved by the F.D.A for blood/plasma
donor screening.
1

--- Page 2 ---
IgM Assay: The DiaSorin LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay uses chemiluminescent
immunoassay (CLIA) technology on the LIAISON® Analyzer for the
presumptive qualitative determination of IgM antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii in
human serum. The LIAISON® Toxo IgM can be used as an aid in the
presumptive diagnosis of acute or recent Toxoplasma gondii infection. It is
recommended that the LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay be performed in conjunction
with a Toxoplasma gondii IgG assay.
Caution: This assay has not been cleared/approved by the F.D.A for blood/plasma
donor screening.
2. Indication(s) for use:
IgG Assay: The LIAISON® Toxo IgG assay uses chemiluminescent
immunoassay (CLIA) technology on the LIAISON® Analyzer (Catolog number
15970) for the the qualitative determination of specific IgG antibodies to
Toxoplasma gondii in human serum. The results of this assay can be used as an
aid in the assessment of the patient’s serological status to infection with
Toxoplasma gondii and in the determination of immune status of individuals
including pregnant women.
This assay has not been cleared/approved by the FDA for blood/plasma donor
screening.
IgM Assay: The DiaSorin LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay uses chemiluminescent
immunoassay (CLIA) technology on the LIAISON® Analyzer for the
presumptive qualitative determination of IgM antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii in
human serum. The LIAISON® Toxo IgM can be used as an aid in the
presumptive diagnosis of acute or recent Toxoplasma gondii infection. It is
recommended that the LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay be performed in conjunction
with a Toxoplasma gondii IgG assay.
This assay has not been cleared/approved by the FDA for blood/plasma donor
screening.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
IgG Assay: The method for qualitative determination of IgG antibodies to
Toxoplasma gondii (anti-Toxo IgG) is an indirect chemiluminescence
2

--- Page 3 ---
immunoassay (CLIA). All assay steps (with the exception of magnetic particle
resuspension) and incubations are performed by the LIAISON® Analyzer. The
principal components of the test are magnetic particles (solid phase) coated with
Toxoplasma gondii and a conjugate of mouse monoclonal antibodies to human
IgG linked to an isoluminol derivative (isoluminol-antibody conjugate). During
the first incubation, Toxoplasma gondii antibodies present in diluted calibrators,
samples or controls bind to the solid phase. During the second incubation, the
monoclonal antibody conjugate reacts with anti-Toxo IgG that is already bound to
the solid phase. After each incubation, unbound material is removed with a wash
cycle. Subsequently, the starter reagents are added and a flash
chemiluminescence reaction is thus induced. The light signal and therefore, the
amount of isoluminol-antibody conjugate, is measured by a photomultiplier as
relative light units (RLU) and is indicative of the presence of anti-Toxo IgG in
calibrators, samples or controls.
IgM Assay: The method for qualitative determination of IgM antibodies to
Toxoplasma gondii (anti-Toxo IgM) is an antibody capture chemiluminescence
immunoassay (CLIA). All assay steps (with the exception of magnetic particle
resuspension) and incubations are performed by the LIAISON® Analyzer. The
principal components of the test are magnetic particles (solid phase) coated with
IgG to human IgM (mouse, monoclonal), Toxoplasma gondii antigen, and a
conjugate of mouse monoclonal antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii linked to an
isoluminol derivative (isoluminol-antibody conjugate). During the first
incubation, IgM antibodies present in diluted calibrators, samples or controls bind
to the solid phase. During the second incubation, the mouse monoclonal antibody
conjugate reacts with Toxoplasma gondii antigen previously added and the
immune complex thus formed reacts with IgM already bound to the solid phase.
After each incubation, the unbound material is removed with a wash cycle.
Subsequently, the starter reagents are added and a flash chemiluminescence
reaction is thus induced. The light signal, and therefore the amount of isoluminol-
antibody conjugate, is measured by a photomultiplier as relative light units (RLU)
and is indicative of the presence of anti-Toxo IgM in calibrators, samples or
controls.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Is-Toxoplasma IgG ELISA Kit and Toxoplasma IgM ELISA Kit
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k981498 (IgG Device) and k963289 (IgM Device)
3. Comparison with predicate:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
IgG Assay:
Specimen Type Human serum Human serum
IgM Assay:
Method and type Qualitative Qualitative
Specimen Type Human serum Human serum
Differences
Item Device Predicate
IgG Assay:
Method and Type Chemiluminescent ELISA
Immunoassay
Qualitative Qualitative & quantitative
Instrumentation Automated Manual and automated
IgM Assay:
Method and Type Chemiluminescent ELISA
Immunoassay
Instrumentation Automated Manual
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
Chemiluminescence immunoassay
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
IgG Assay: An assay reproducibility study was conducted at two external US
laboratories and at DiaSorin. A coded panel comprised of 9 frozen repository
samples was prepared by DiaSorin and provided to each site for testing by the
LIAISON® Toxo IgG assay. The panel contained samples prepared to represent
low to mid positive analyte levels. All panel members were divided into aliquots
and stored frozen prior to testing. The same coded panel was tested at all three
sites, in three replicates per run for ten runs. The overall CV for the positive
specimens ranged from 5 – 8%.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
IgG Assay:
Specimen Type
IgM Assay:
Method and type
Specimen Type			Human serum
Qualitative
Human serum			Human serum
Qualitative
Human serum		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
IgG Assay:
Method and Type
Instrumentation
IgM Assay:
Method and Type
Instrumentation			Chemiluminescent
Immunoassay
Qualitative
Automated
Chemiluminescent
Immunoassay
Automated			ELISA
Qualitative & quantitative
Manual and automated
ELISA
Manual		

--- Page 5 ---
IgM Assay: An assay reproducibility study was conducted at two external US
laboratories and at DiaSorin. A coded panel comprised of 9 frozen repository
serum samples was prepared by DiaSorin and provided to each site for testing by
the LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay. The panel contained 3 sets of serum samples.
The sets were prepared to represent low to mid positive analyte levels. All panel
members were divided into aliquots and stored frozen prior to testing. The same
coded panel was tested at all three sites, in three replicates per run for ten runs.
The overall CV for the positive specimens ranged from 19 – 32%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
IgG Assay: Cross-reactivity studies for the LIAISON® Toxo IgG assay were
designed to evaluate potential interference from IgG immunoglobulins directed
against closely-related members of the herpes virus family, organisms that may
cause symptoms similar to Toxoplasmosis and other conditions that may result
from atypical immune system activity. No positive result was found for the
samples when tested by LIAISON® Toxoplasma IgG.
IgM Assay: Cross-reactivity studies for the LIAISON® Toxo IgM assay were
designed to evaluate potential interference from IgM immunoglobulins directed
against closely-related members of the herpes virus family, organisms that may
cause symptoms similar to Toxoplasmosis and other conditions that may result
from atypical immune system activity. No positive result was found for the
samples when tested by LIAISON® Toxoplasma IgM
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
IgG Assay
A total of 887 prospectively collected samples were tested – 613 collected from
the U.S and 274 collected from Europe. The U.S. collection included 200 samples
from pregnant women. In addition, 200 archived samples from acute, chronic,
5

--- Page 6 ---
and normal patients were tested. The testing was performed at four sites. All
samples were tested with the LIAISON® Toxo IgG Assay and an enzyme
immunoassay, ELISA or Sabin Feldman Dye test.
U.S. specimens – agreement with comparison IgG ELISA
Positive 91.8% (78/85)
Negative 95.3% (304/319)
Overall 93.5% (386/413)
European specimens - agreement with comparison IgG ELISA
Positive 98.6% (139/141)
Negative 91.3% (116/127)
Overall 94.5% (255/268)
Pregnant women (U.S.) - agreement with comparison IgG ELISA
Positive 96% (48/50)
Negative 97.3% (143/147)
Overall 96.5% (190/197)
Retrospective specimens: Two-hundred specimens were compared against the
reference method Sabin Feldman Dye test, out of which 199 samples agreed with
the DiaSorin test.
CDC Panel Study: The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
Toxoplasma 1998 Human Serum Panel was tested by LIAISON® Toxo IgG assay.
The panel is comprised of 100 frozen blinded specimens, 70 Toxoplasma positive
samples and 30 toxoplasma negative samples. The data obtained were submitted
to the CDC for analysis. The LIAISON® Toxo IgG Assay correctly detected the
70 positive and the 30 negative specimens.
IgM Assay
A total of 892 prospectively collected samples were tested – 613 collected from
the U.S and 279 collected from Europe. The U.S. collection included 200 samples
from pregnant women. The testing was performed at three sites – a hospital, a
physician’s laboratory, and at DiaSorin. All samples were tested with the
LIAISON® Toxo IgG Assay and an enzyme immunoassay, ELISA.
U.S. specimens – agreement with comparison IgM ELISA
Positive 33.3% (1/3)
Negative 99.8% (408/409)
6

--- Page 7 ---
Overall 99.3% (409/412)
European specimens - agreement with comparison IgM ELISA
Positive 91.1% (41/45)
Negative 98.7% (223/226)
Overall 94.9% (265/279)
Pregnant women (U.S.) - agreement with comparison IgM ELISA
Positive 33.3% (1/3)
Negative 99.5% (194/195)
Overall 98.5% (195/198)
CDC Panel Study: The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
Toxoplasma 1998 Human Serum Panel was tested by LIAISON® Toxo IgM
assay. The panel is comprised of 100 frozen blinded specimens: 32 Toxoplasma
IgM positive, 3 dilutions of three true Toxoplasma IgM positive, and 65
Toxoplasma IgM negative samples. Of the 65 IgM negative samples 30 were
Toxoplasma IgG negative and 35 IgG positive. The data obtained were submitted
to the CDC for analysis. The LIAISON® Toxo IgM Assay correctly detected the
32 out of the 32 IgM positives, 1 out of the three IgM positive dilutions, and 63
out of the 65 IgM negatives.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
7

--- Page 8 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8