
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052323
B. Purpose for Submission:
Susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to pyrazinamide (PZA)
C. Measurand:
Pyrazinamide at 300 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative growth based detection based on pressure changes
E. Applicant:
TREK Diagnostic Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VersaTREK® MYCO PZA Kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1640
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MJA
4. Panel:
83

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VersaTREK® MYCO PZA Kit is a rapid qualitative procedure for
susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, from culture, to
pyrazinamide (PZA). The VersaTREK® MYCO PZA Kit is used with the
VersaTREK® Automated Microbial Detection System (VTI) and the ESP®
Culture System II (ESP).
2. Indication(s) for use:
For testing M. tuberculosis with 300 µg/mL PZA
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
Inoculum prepared from liquid VersaTREK® Myco seed bottle of confirmed M.
tuberculosis.
Confirm all resistant results with an alternate method.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
ESP/VTI Systems(ESP/VTI) are fully automated, computer-controlled instruments with
self-contained 35o incubator. The Myco broth bottle contains pieces of cellulose
sponge and 12.5 ml of mycobacterial medium (Middlebrook 7H10 broth base).
Each PZA test consists of two Myco broth bottles, one is the growth control and the
other is the single PZA concentration of 300 µg/mL. Both bottles are supplemented
with a MYCO GS (growth supplement), a buffer to adjust the pH (5.9-6.0) and the
adjusted concentration of test organism. After inoculation of the bottles, a disposable
connector is attached to each bottle to connect the bottle head space to the instrument
sensor. The connector contains a recessed needle that penetrates the bottle stopper, an
O-ring to seal the bottle to the instrument and a 0.22 micron hydrophobic membrane to
prevent contamination of the sample and to protect users from aerosols. Bottles are
continuously monitored until the test is complete. A conversion from the pressure
reading in the headspace is converted into a curve for analysis of growth if it is present.
If there is no growth then the curve is represented by a flat line indicating the organism
is inhibited by the drug (is susceptible). As the organism grows the pressure change is
measured; curves due to gas production will show an upward curve whereas curves due
to gas consumption will show a downward curve. Mycobacteria consume oxygen in

--- Page 3 ---
the ESP/VTI System and growth is demonstrated by a gas consumption curve with a
downward curve. A positive curve for mycobacterial testing is indicative of
contamination. If growth in a PZA containing bottle is detected within three days of
the detection of the control bottle, the organism is considered resistant. If there is no
growth detected or if growth is detected >3 days after detection of the control bottle, the
organism is considered susceptible. Growth detected prior to 2.5 days would indicate
contamination, growth detected >12 days in the control would indicate too low of an
inoculum or lack of proper supplementation.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BACTEC® 460TB
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k895362
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Qualitative susceptibility Same
testing of M. tuberculosis
to pyrazinamide
Growth based Compare growth from a Same
drug free medium to
growth in the presence of
PZA
Results Qualitative Qualitative
pH 5.9-6.0 final pH same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Medium additives Oleic acid, catalase, Albumin, catalase
dextrose, albumin
PZA concentration 300 µg/mL 100 µg/mL
Incubation and readings Incubation in Incubation off line and
VersaTREK® or ESP® manually placed in
culture system until BACTEC® 460
instrument detection of instrument periodically
growth with manual to obtain readings for
interpretations manual interpretation
Detection technology Change in headspace Radioactive labeled

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Qualitative susceptibility
testing of M. tuberculosis
to pyrazinamide			Same		
Growth based			Compare growth from a
drug free medium to
growth in the presence of
PZA			Same		
Results			Qualitative			Qualitative		
pH			5.9-6.0 final pH			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Medium additives			Oleic acid, catalase,
dextrose, albumin			Albumin, catalase		
PZA concentration			300 µg/mL			100 µg/mL		
Incubation and readings			Incubation in
VersaTREK® or ESP®
culture system until
instrument detection of
growth with manual
interpretations			Incubation off line and
manually placed in
BACTEC® 460
instrument periodically
to obtain readings for
manual interpretation		
Detection technology			Change in headspace			Radioactive labeled		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
pressure measured by a carbon dioxide measured
sensor in the head space
Inoculum Pure cultures of M. Pure cultures of M.
tuberculosis grown in a tuberculosis grown in
seed bottle BACTEC® 12B medium
to the active phase
Growth monitoring time Continuous monitoring Once daily
Incubation temperature 35o 37o
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) standard M24-A “Susceptibility
Testing of Mycobacteria, Nocardiae, and Other Aerobic Actinomycetes”; Approved
Standard.
L. Test Principle:
ESP/VTI Systems (ESP/VTI) are fully automated, computer-controlled instruments
with a self-contained 35o incubator. The detection technology is based upon the
measurement of pressure changes in the head space of a sealed bottle. The growth
and metabolism of organisms in culture medium result in the consumption of oxygen
or the production of gases, such as CO , N , and H Individual sensors continuously
2 2 2.
monitor changes in gas pressure in the head space of each bottle. When a positive
culture is detected, a red light is illuminated at the bottle location. The computer
continuously monitors each location, generates patient reports, assigns locations and
bottle entry or removal.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was determined to be > 95% with the data sets that included
thirty challenge strains tested one time at three sites, two strains tested at three
sites on three days in triplicate, with three lots from four strains at one site.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Quality Control was performed at the time of testing using a susceptible strain

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			pressure measured by a
sensor			carbon dioxide measured
in the head space		
Inoculum			Pure cultures of M.
tuberculosis grown in a
seed bottle			Pure cultures of M.
tuberculosis grown in
BACTEC® 12B medium
to the active phase		
Growth monitoring time			Continuous monitoring			Once daily		
Incubation temperature			35o			37o		

--- Page 5 ---
(ATCC 25618) and a resistant strain (ATCC 35828) with adequate test results.
Since the original studies a more consistent QC isolate (ATCC 27294) was
tested and demonstrated to be a better QC isolate. ATCC 27294 is the
Quality Control recommended in CLSI Standard M24A and also in this assay
with the expected result of susceptible.
Periodic colony counts were performed to demonstrate that the final inoculum
was with in the recommended range of 106.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The VersaTREK®PZA susceptibility test was evaluated at five geographically
diverse sites composed of regional reference centers, public health laboratories,
and university hospital-based laboratories. The VersaTREK® PZA KIT was
compared to the BACTEC® 460TB PZA susceptibility test method.
Susceptibility tests of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were performed on 96 isolates
from a liquid inoculum source. The ESP Myco PZA is tested at a concentration
of 300 µg/mL and a pH of 5.9-6.0 while the BACTEC® 460 uses a concentration
of PZA at 100 µg/mL and a pH of 5.9-6.0. There was a < 10% no growth rate or
repeats due to no growth or contamination. The results are demonstrated in the
table below:
BACTEC® 460TB ESP/VTI System
Expected Susceptible Resistant
Results
Source/source # Tests S R # Agree CA % # Agree CA %
(95%CI) (95%CI)
Seeded bottle 96 83 13 73 88 (79- 12 92.3 (64-
94.1) 99.8)
All resistant results are recommended to be confirmed with an alternate method
which would improve the % agreement of susceptible organisms and remove the

[Table 1 on page 5]
		BACTEC® 460TB		ESP/VTI System			
		Expected
Results		Susceptible		Resistant	
Source/source	# Tests	S	R	# Agree	CA %
(95%CI)	# Agree	CA %
(95%CI)
Seeded bottle	96	83	13	73	88 (79-
94.1)	12	92.3 (64-
99.8)

--- Page 6 ---
false resistance that may occur.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Susceptible
Resistant
Quality Control is the same as recommended in the CLSI standard and will be
included in the package insert.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part
809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision

--- Page 7 ---
8