
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k052793
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification to a Cleared Device
The device modification was for changing the ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP Specific IgA
Conjugate from polyclonal rabbit anti-human IgA antibodies to mouse monoclonal
anti-human IgA antibodies. There were no changes to the specific IgG conjugate. The
name of the device was changed from UniCAP to ImmunoCAP/UniCAP.
C. Measurand:
Human anti-IgA and anti-IgG Gliadin Antibodies.
D. Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative, Non Competitive Solid Phase, Fluoroenzymeimmunoassay (FEIA)
E. Applicant:
Pharmacia Diagnostics AB
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP Gliadin IgA/IgG
ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP Specific IgA
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.5750- Radioallergosorbent Imunological Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MST- Antibodies, Gliadin
4. Panel:
Immunology 82
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Gliadin IgA/IgG is a device for the in vitro
semiquantitative measurement of IgA and IgG antibodies specific for Gliadin in
human serum. ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Gliadin IgA/IgG is intended to be used with
the instrument ImmunoCAP/UniCAP together with reagents as stated in the
Directions for Use provided with ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Specific IgA and
ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Specific IgG. It is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
an aid in the clinical diagnosis of patients with celiac disease.
ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP Specific IgA is an in vitro test system for quantitative
measurement of antigen specific IgA antibodies. The corresponding antigen for
the specific antibody to be measured by ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Specific IgA is
bound to the Antigen ImmunoCAP solid phase component of the
ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Specific IgA System. ImmunoCAP/UniCAP Specific IgA
assay is to be used with the instrument ImmunoCAP100/UniCAP 100. It is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use in conjunction with other clinical findings, and
1

--- Page 2 ---
is to be used in clinical laboratories as well as physician’s office laboratories.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The device is for prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ImmunoCAP100/UniCAP100
I. Device Description:
The device consists of specific IgA and IgG conjugate, specific IgA/IgG sample
diluent, specific IgA/IgG calibrators, two specific IgA curve controls, individual
antigens covalently coupled to solid phase (Antigen ImmunoCAP Gliadin),
development kit including development solution and stop solution and system
washing solution.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
UniCAP Gliadin IgA (UniCAP Specific IgA)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k982533
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item New Device Predicate
Device Name ImmunoCAP UniCAP
In vitro semiquantitative
measurement of IgA and IgG
antibodies specific for Gliadin
in human serum used with the
Intended Use instrument
Same
Statement ImmunoCAP/UniCAP.
It is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid in the
clinical diagnosis of patients
with celiac disease.
Semi- quantitative
Results Same
interpretation
Same (Except for new brand
Instrumentation UniCAP 100
name ImmunoCAPTM)
Sample Type Human Serum Same
Measuring Non Competitive Solid Phase
Same
Principle (FEIA)
Measuring Range 1-100 mg/l Same
Number of
Immunological 2 Same
Reactions Steps
Reaction
37 °C Same
Temperature
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			New Device			Predicate	
Device Name			ImmunoCAP			UniCAP		
Intended Use
Statement			In vitro semiquantitative
measurement of IgA and IgG
antibodies specific for Gliadin
in human serum used with the
instrument
ImmunoCAP/UniCAP.
It is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid in the
clinical diagnosis of patients
with celiac disease.			Same		
Results			Semi- quantitative
interpretation			Same		
Instrumentation			Same (Except for new brand
name ImmunoCAPTM)			UniCAP 100		
Sample Type			Human Serum			Same		
Measuring
Principle			Non Competitive Solid Phase
(FEIA)			Same		
Measuring Range			1-100 mg/l			Same		
Number of
Immunological
Reactions Steps			2			Same		
Reaction
Temperature			37 °C			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item New Device Predicate
Sample Dilution 1:100 Same
Capture Antigen Wheat Extract Same
Calibrators Human IgA Calibrators Same
Calibration Curve Option to store curve for up to
Same
Stability one month
International Ref. Prep. 67/86
Reference for Human Serum
Same
Standards Immunoglobulin A,G and M
from WHO
Two IgA curve controls
Controls Same
included in kit
Differences
Item New Device Predicate
Detection Antibody
Mouse Monoclonal anti- Rabbit Polyclonal anti-
(Specific IgA
Human IgA antibodies Human IgA antibodies
Conjugate)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
The gliadin antigen is covalently coupled to ImmunoCAP and reacts with specific
antibodies in the patients diluted serum sample. After washing away non specific
antibodies, enzyme-labeled antibodies against IgA are added to form a complex.
After incubation, unbound enzyme-anti-IgA is washed away and the bound complex
is incubated with a developing agent. After stopping the reaction, the fluorescence of
the eluate is measured. The response value is proportional to the amount of specific
IgA present in the specimen. To evaluate the test results, the response for the patient
samples are transformed to concentrations with the use of a calibration curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Three samples with various concentration levels were assayed in 4 replicates
with 3 lots of conjugate at 6 different times. The percents coefficient
variations (%CV) within assay and between assays are summarized below:
Sample Level % CV % CV
(mg/L) Within Assay Between Assays
3 6.8 7.7
18 3.3 3.2
32 4.5 4.4
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			New Device			Predicate	
Sample Dilution			1:100			Same		
Capture Antigen			Wheat Extract			Same		
Calibrators			Human IgA Calibrators			Same		
Calibration Curve
Stability			Option to store curve for up to
one month			Same		
Reference
Standards			International Ref. Prep. 67/86
for Human Serum
Immunoglobulin A,G and M
from WHO			Same		
Controls			Two IgA curve controls
included in kit			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			New Device			Predicate	
Detection Antibody
(Specific IgA
Conjugate)			Mouse Monoclonal anti-
Human IgA antibodies			Rabbit Polyclonal anti-
Human IgA antibodies		

[Table 3 on page 3]
Sample Level
(mg/L)	% CV
Within Assay	% CV
Between Assays
3	6.8	7.7
18	3.3	3.2
32	4.5	4.4

--- Page 4 ---
The assay reportable range is 1-100 mg/L
Dilution Studies
The goal of the study was to test if sample concentrations are correctly
measured after dilution in UniCAP Specific IgA when using UniCAP Specific
IgA Conjugate containing monoclonal antibodies. Three samples were diluted
1/100 and then further diluted 1:2, 1:4, 1:8 and 1:16. Fifteen samples were
diluted 1/100 and then further diluted 1:5.5. IgA/IgG diluent was used for the
dilution. All dilutions were tested in 3 runs, in 3 replicates/run in UniCAP
100. Calibrators were run in 2 replicates/run. The O/E (obtained sample
concentration/expected sample concentration) results were within the
specification (≤ 20%). For dilutions 1:2 and 1:4 all three samples were within
specifications. Seventy-four percent (74%) of the different dilutions, including
the 1:5.5 dilutions, were within specifications (20%). Values outside target
value were obtained in the low concentration range. Since it is necessary to
dilute samples with high titers only, the results are considered to be
acceptable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The calibrators are traceable to the International Reference Preparation 67/86
for Human Serum Immunoglobulin A, G, and M from WHO.
d. Detection limit:
Three verification lots of UniCAP Specific IgA Conjugate and new
monoclonal mouse anti-human IgA conjugate were tested. Each verification
lot was tested with new conjugate in the same run. Calibrator 0.01 mg/L and
ImmunoCAP IgA/IgG calibrators were tested in 12 replicates with each
conjugate. The detection limit was determined using the discriminatory
ability (D). D was determined according to the formula:
Calibrator 0.01- Diluent = D
√S2 + S2
Calibrator 0.01 Diluent
If D is ≥2, the test is capable of discriminating IgA/IgG sample diluent from
the calibrator (0.01mg/L). Based on the test results the discrimination was
significant between sample diluent and calibrator 0.01 mg/L for all three lots.
The detection limit for UniCAP Specific IgA is 0.01 mg/L.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity: There was no detectable cross-reactivity with human serum
immunoglobulins IgG, IgM or IgE at normal physiological levels.
f. Assay cut-off:
In a study with 100 healthy individuals, 90% had results <1.6 mg/L and 95%
had results <2.2 mg/L.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
One hundred eighty-two samples (90 celiac disease patients, 48 non celiac
disease and 44 non atopic healthy blood donors) were tested with the mouse
monoclonal antibody (mAb) and the polyclonal antibody (pAb) conjugates.
4

--- Page 5 ---
The anti-Gliadin antibody concentrations ranged from 1-100 mg/L. Sample
concentrations of the two conjugates were compared and the linear regression
analysis yielded results (mAb) = 0.85(pAb) - 0.37 and R2=0.95 (see figure
below)
Since on average, the Gliadin specific IgA antibody results using the mAb
conjugate were 30 % lower than the present pAb conjugate the assay cut-off
has to be adjusted to 2 mg/L to be comparable to the predicate device. The
comparison table below shows the results for samples tested with mAb
specific IgA conjugate and the pAb conjugate in the predicate device using a
cut-off of 3 mg/L for the predicate device and 2 mg/L for the modified assay.
The 2 mg/L is the specified cut-off for anti-Gliadin IgA in the
ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP Gliadin IgA/IgG and ImmunoCAPTM/UniCAP
Specific IgA Package Inserts. The total agreement between the new mAb
conjugate and the pAb was 91.2 %.
pAb IgA Conjugate
≥3 <3 Total
mAb IgA ≥2 71 9 80
Conjugate <2 7 95 102
Total 78 104 182
Overall percent agreement is (166/182) x100 = 91.2%
Positive percent agreement is (71/78) x 100 = 91.0 %
Negative percent agreement is (95/104) x 100 = 91.3 %
b. Matrix comparison:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
		pAb IgA Conjugate		
		≥3	<3	Total
mAb IgA
Conjugate	≥2	71	9	80
	<2	7	95	102
	Total	78	104	182

--- Page 6 ---
Both assays use human serum as matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not provided.
b. Clinical Specificity:
Not provided.
c. Other clinical supportive data(when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
See Assay cut-off
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The Expected value in the normal population would be <2mg/L. At this cut-off,
93% of the subjects tested were negative.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
6