
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k052788
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Homocysteine
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, competitive immunoassay using particle-enhanced nephelometry
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
N Latex HCY,
N Protein Standard SL
N/T Protein Control SL/L, M, and H
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1377, Urinary homocystine (non-quantitative test system
21 CFR §862.1150, Calibrator
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class II for assay reagents and calibrator material
Class I for control material
3. Product code:
LPS, JIX, JJY
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See item 2 below.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
N Latex HCY:
In Vitro diagnostic reagents for the quantitative determination of total
homocysteine (HCY) in human serum, heparinized plasma, and EDTA plasma by
means of particle-enhanced immunonephelometry on the BN™ II and BN
ProSpec® Systems. The device can assist in the diagnosis and treatment of
patients suspected of having hyperhomocysteinemia and homocysteinuria.
N Protein Standard SL:
Establishment of reference curves for the determination of IgG , IgA, IgM, C3c,
1-4
C4, transferring, albumin, alpha1-antitrypsin, alpha2-macroglobulin, haptoglobin,
alpha1-acid glycoprotein, prealbumin, hemopexin, ceruloplasmin, RbP, Ig/L-
chain lambda & kappa, soluble transferring receptor, ferritin, β2-microglobulin,
total protein and homocysteine by immunonephelometry with BN™ Systems.
N/T Protein Control SL/L, M, and H:
N/T Protein Controls SL/L, M, and H are for use as accuracy and precision
assayed controls in the determination of the following human serum proteins by
immunonephelometry with BN™ Systems: IgG , IgA, IgM, C3c, C4,
1-4
transferring, albumin, alpha1-antitrypsin, alpha2-macroglobulin, haptoglobin,
alpha1-acid glycoprotein, prealbumin, hemopexin, ceruloplasmin, RbP, Ig/L-
chain lambda & kappa, soluble transferring receptor, ferritin, β2-microglobulin,
total protein and homocysteine
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
The labeling includes the following precaution: “Certain drugs such as
antiepileptic, antifolates, nitrous oxide anesthesia and antagonists of vitamin B6
are known to raise the homocysteine concentration in human blood. Specimens
from patients who are on drug therapy involving S-adenosyl-methionine may
show falsely elevated levels of homocysteine.”
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Behring BN™ II and BN ProSpec® Systems
I. Device Description:
The reagent kit contains four different components. The N HCY Reagent consists of
a suspension of polystyrene particles coated with mouse monoclonal anti-SAH
antibody (S-adenosyl-homcysteine) and is supplied in three vials. Also supplied are
three vials each of N HCY RA, N HCY SR A, and N HCY SR B. N HCY RA
consists of a buffered, stabilized solution of the reduction reagent dithiothreitol. N
HCY SR A consists of a buffered, stabilized solution of the enzyme S-adenosyl-L-
homocysteine hydrolase (recombinant). N HCY SR B consists of a buffered,
stabilized solution of a conjugate of S-adenosyl-cysteine with porcine thyroglobulin
(PTG-SAC).
2

--- Page 3 ---
The N Protein Standard SL is a liquid, stabilized human serum that is ready to use.
The N/T Protein Controls SL (Low, Medium and High) are liquid, stabilized human
sera and are ready to use.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Abbott IMx Homocysteine
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k992858
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item N Latex HCY Abbott IMx
Homocysteine
Intended Use Immunoassay for the Immunoassay for the
quantitative quantitative
determination of total measurement of total L-
homocysteine in human homocysteine in human
serum, heparinized serum or plasma. The
plasma, and EDTA device can assist in the
plasma. The device can diagnosis and treatment
assist in the diagnosis and of patients suspected of
treatment of patients having
suspected of having hyperhomocysteinemia
hyperhomocysteinemia and homocysteinuria
and homocysteinuria
Sample type Serum, heparinized Serum, heparinized
plasma, EDTA plasma plasma (Li), EDTA
plasma
Antibody Mouse monoclonal Mouse monoclonal
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology Particle enhanced Fluorescence
immuno-nephelometry Polarization
immunoassay
Assay Range 2.0-64 µmol/mL 0.8-50 µmol/mL
Up to 256 µmol/mL Up to 500 µmol/mL
(extended range with (extended range with
1:20 dilution) 1:10 dilution)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item	N Latex HCY		Abbott IMx	
			Homocysteine	
Intended Use
Sample type
Antibody	Immunoassay for the
quantitative
determination of total
homocysteine in human
serum, heparinized
plasma, and EDTA
plasma. The device can
assist in the diagnosis and
treatment of patients
suspected of having
hyperhomocysteinemia
and homocysteinuria
Serum, heparinized
plasma, EDTA plasma
Mouse monoclonal	Immunoassay for the
quantitative
measurement of total L-
homocysteine in human
serum or plasma. The
device can assist in the
diagnosis and treatment
of patients suspected of
having
hyperhomocysteinemia
and homocysteinuria
Serum, heparinized
plasma (Li), EDTA
plasma
Mouse monoclonal		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Technology
Assay Range			Particle enhanced
immuno-nephelometry
2.0-64 µmol/mL
Up to 256 µmol/mL
(extended range with
1:20 dilution)			Fluorescence
Polarization
immunoassay
0.8-50 µmol/mL
Up to 500 µmol/mL
(extended range with
1:10 dilution)		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods;
Approved Guideline-Second Addition (CLSI, formerly NCCLS, EP5-A2)
L. Test Principle:
Bound homocysteine in the sample is reduced to free homocysteine by the action of
dithiothreitol, and converted enzymatically to S-adenosyl-homocysteine (SAH) in the
next step. Conjugated S-adenosyl-cysteine (SAC) added at the onset of the reaction
competes with the SAH in the sample for bonding by anti-SAH antibodies bound to
polystyrene particles. In the presence of SAH there is either no aggregation or a
weaker aggregation of the polystyrene particles. In the absence of SAH in the sample
an aggregation of the polystyrene particles by conjugated SAC occurs. The higher
the SAH content of the reaction mixture, the smaller the scattered light signal. The
result is evaluated by comparison with a standard of known concentration.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within run imprecision ranged from 2.7-4.6% CV and total imprecision
ranged from 4.6-8.5% CV.
Precision studies were based on a modification of CLSI EP5-A2. N/T Protein
Control SL-L/M/H and two plasma pools (~12 µmol/L and ~32 µmol/L) were
included in the study. Four determinations (n=4) of each control or plasma
pool were run over 10 days using the BN System (n=40 total).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Samples whose concentration is greater than upper limit of the measuring
range of the device (~64 µmol/L) may be diluted automatically using a 1:20
dilution of the sample.
Linearity was evaluated by diluting a serum sample spiked with homocysteine
(~58 µmol/L) with Dade Behring N Diluent in 10% dilution steps. Each
dilution was tested in replicates of five. The percent recovery was determined
by comparing the mean measured concentration to the theoretical
concentration. Additionally, the linear regression of theoretical vs. measured
concentration was calculated. The sponsor’s acceptance criteria were percent
recovery between 80 and 120%, a slope between 0.9 and 1.1, and a correlation
coefficient (r) ≥ 0.95. The results for the sample evaluated in the study were
90.5 to 103.2% percent recovery, slope = 1.024, and r = 0.995.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment: The Standard and Controls are
4

--- Page 5 ---
calibrated against an internal master calibrator, which is calibrated against
Dade Behring and commercially available reference preparations.
Specifically, homocysteine is calibrated against a commercially available
preparation of purified S-adenosylhomocysteine.
The value assignment process for the Standard and Control is as follows.
Four independent runs are performed using two different BN systems. Three
vials of each new lot of Standard and Control are selected and assayed as
samples, using n=4 replicates. For each of the four runs, reference standard
curves are established using the internal master calibrator. The value assigned
to the Standard or Control is the mean of the 144 results (4 runs x 3 reference
curves x 3 vials x 4 replicates).
Stability: To support a 24 month shelf-life for unopened N Protein standard
SL and N/T Protein Control stored at 2-8°C, testing is performed at Day 0 and
Month 26 in duplicate. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion for standard or
control tested at 26 months is recovery within ±15% of assigned values.
To support an open-vial stability of 14 days at 2-8°C, testing is performed at
Day 0, 14, and 15 in duplicate. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion for
standard or control is recovery within ±15% of assigned values.
d. Detection limit:
Analytical sensitivity is determined in the following manner. Twenty
replicates (n=20) of N Diluent and N Protein Standard SL at a 1:160 dilution
(the lowest point on the reference curve) are analyzed on the BN II system.
The mean, standard deviation, and percent CV of the 20 replicates are
calculated. Finally, the sensitivity is calculated using the following equation:
2SD Signal (N Diluent) x HCY conc. Standard (1:160)
Signal Mean (N Diluent) – Signal Mean Standard (1:160)
Since the analytical sensitivity of the N Latex HCY assay is based on the
concentration of homocysteine in the N Protein Standard, it is stated in the
labeling that the assay sensitivity is typically 2 µmol/L.
e. Analytical specificity:
The cross-reactivity of seven structurally related compounds S-Adenosyl-L-
Methionine (up to 0.5 mM), L-Cysteine (up to 5 mM), L-Cystathionine (up to
2 mM), L-Methionine (up to 0.4 mM), Homocysteine Thiolactone (up to 0.1
mM), Adenosine (up to 1 mM), and Glutathione (up to 50 mM) were
evaluated using the N Latex HCY assay. Plasma samples with normal levels
of homocysteine were spiked with each compound and these were compared
to control sample spiked with an equivalent volume of saline. When control
samples were compared to test samples, cross-reactivity was found to be
<10% for GSH, <1% for L-Cysteine, and <5% for all other compounds tested.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Potential interference from endogenous compounds such as bilirubin,
hemoglobin, lipid, and protein were evaluated. No interference (sample
recovers within ±20% of the reference) was seen with compounds at the
following levels: bilirubin up to 0.6 mg/mL, hemoglobin up to 10 mg/mL,
protein up to 8.8 g/dL, triglycerides up to 4.21 mM. Elevated levels of
rheumatoid factors also do not interfere with the assay.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A method comparison study was performed comparing test results for EDTA
plasma samples (n=87) evaluated on both the N Latex HCY assay and the
Abbott IMx Homocysteine assay. Samples ranged in value from
approximately 4.8-60 µmol/L. Regression analysis of the results yielded the
following equation: y= 0.97x + 0.01 µmol/L (r = 0.99).
b. Matrix comparison:
In a study comparing homocysteine results between matched EDTA and
heparin plasma samples (n=10), there was on average a -8.2% difference in
HCY concentration. In a separate study comparing homocysteine results
between matched EDTA and serum samples (n=10), serum samples gave on
average 10% higher values than the corresponding EDTA plasma samples.
The product labeling states that in patient monitoring results from different
sample types (EDTA and serum) should not be interchanged.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The sponsor cites a scientific study where the reference interval for adult males
and females was found to be between 5 and 15 µmol/L. The package insert states
that homocysteine concentrations in plasma and serum of healthy individuals can
6

--- Page 7 ---
vary with age, gender, geographical area, nutritional status, and genetic factors.
The sponsor states in the labeling that each facility should determine its own
reference interval since values may vary depending on the population and
specimen type studied.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports and
substantial equivalence decision.
7