
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 7
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052250
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the antibiotic tobramycin at concentrations of 0.5 – 16 µg/mL to the
Gram Positive ID/AST and AST only Phoenix™ panels.
C. Measurand:
Tobramycin at 0.5 – 16 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (Quantitative and Qualitative) colorimetric
oxidation-reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Tobramycin 0.5 - 16 µg/mL
Gram Positive panel
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle
Antimicrobial
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is intended for the
in vitro quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most gram-negative aerobic and facultative
anaerobic bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae and non -

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive bacteria belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus and Enterococcus.
The BD Phoenix™ Gram Positive (GP) Panel: The Phoenix™ Automated
Microbiology System is intended for the in vitro rapid identification (ID) of
gram positive bacteria from pure culture belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus, Enterococcus, Streptococcus and other gram positive cocci.
The BD Phoenix™ GP ID/AST and AST only panels are also intended for the
quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most bacteria isolates from pure culture
belonging to the genera Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Enterococcus
when used with the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the tobramycin at concentrations of
0.5 – 16 µg/mL to the Phoenix™ GP ID/AST and AST only panels.
Tobramycin has been shown to be active in vitro and in clinical infections
against most strains of S. aureus.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for ID and AST
Indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and
equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™
Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST broth, which contains an AST
indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-adjusted broth
containing Tween 80. After adding the indicator solution to the AST inoculum, the color
is blue, and after inoculation and incubation, it changes to pink then colorless as
reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated panels are barcode scanned and loaded
into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System instrument where the panels are
continuously incubated at 35°C. The resulting AST has a final inoculum of 5 x 105
CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and records the results of the biochemical
substrates and antimicrobial agents and interprets the reactions to give an ID of the isolate
and MIC value and category interpretation of the antimicrobial agents. Organisms
growing in the presence of a given antimicrobic agent reduce the indicator, signaling
organism growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent. Organisms killed or inhibited
by a given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the indicator and therefore do not

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done using software driven
“EXPERT” System using rules derived from the Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute (CLSI).
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an ID result available between 2-12 hours and
an AST result available between 4-16 hours. This is only an autoread result; there are no
manual readings possible.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® System
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro rapid same
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of
most bacteria.
Isolates Isolated colonies from culture used Isolated colonies from
culture used
Results Report results as minimum Report results as
inhibitory concentration (MIC) minimum inhibitory
and categorical interpretation concentration (MIC) and
(SIR) categorical interpretation
(SIR)
Incubation <16 hours <16 hours
conditions
Type of Test Automated Automated

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro rapid
identification (ID) and quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of
most bacteria.			same		
Isolates			Isolated colonies from culture used			Isolated colonies from
culture used		
Results			Report results as minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC)
and categorical interpretation
(SIR)			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)		
Incubation
conditions			<16 hours			<16 hours		
Type of Test			Automated			Automated		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reading algorithm Results are determined from Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of extrapolation of doubling
antimicrobial agents dilutions
Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox with detection using an
indicator (colorimetric attenuation of light
oxidation-reduction) to measured by an optical
detect organism growth. scanner.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S15) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The system employs conventional, colorimetric, fluorogenic and chromogenic
substrates to identify the genus and species of the isolate. The AST portion of the BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth based microdilution method
that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-reduction) to enhance detection
of organism growth. The MIC is determined by comparing growth in wells
containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the growth in “growth control
wells” which contain no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Of the nineteen isolates included in the reproducibility study, nine
(9) had on-scale modes for tobramycin that were evaluated for site to
site and inter site reproducibility; Intersite and Intrasite testing both
demonstrated >95% reproducibility. The ten isolate study described
in the guidance document was used (10 organisms tested 3 times on
3 days at 3 sites), although only nine isolates produced on-scale
modes. Three organisms – one Staphylococcus spp., one S. aureus,
and one S. hycius - produced off-scale results or no result, among
the three sites.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reading algorithm			Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of
antimicrobial agents			Results are determined from
extrapolation of doubling
dilutions		
Technology			Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox
indicator (colorimetric
oxidation-reduction) to
detect organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
The CLSI recommended Quality Control strains S. aureus 29213
was tested a sufficient number of times with acceptable results on
most testing days with the reference method. The Phoenix™ results
demonstrated that the system can produce QC results in the
recommended range.
The following table provides the frequency of the results in each
concentration tested with the expected range stated.
Organism Concentration Reference Phoenix™
µg/mL results results
S. aureus <=0.5 240 9
ATCC 29213 1 7 233
Expected range 2 1 3
0.12 - 1 µg/mL 4
8 1
16
>16
There is a trend for the mode for the Phoenix™ results to be more
resistant than the mode for the reference method for the QC
recommended organism S. aureus ATCC 29213, if only by one
dilution, but still producing acceptable QC results >95% of the time.
Inoculum density control: The organism suspension density of the
ID broth was equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard using the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of
testing. Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the
BBL™ CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible
results. Five different instruments were used. Additional testing on
5 streptococcal strains was performed to demonstrate acceptable
performance for streptococcal species.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 5]
Organism	Concentration
µg/mL	Reference
results	Phoenix™
results
			
S. aureus
ATCC 29213
Expected range
0.12 - 1 µg/mL	<=0.5	240	9
	1	7	233
	2	1	3
	4		
	8		1
	16		
	>16		

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The broth dilution reference panel was prepared according to the CLSI
recommendation and used to compare with the Phoenix™ results.
Clinical testing was performed at four sites. The testing included both
fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates along with a challenge set with
known results. A total of 1220 isolates were tested, 46 were Challenge
isolates, and 1174 were Clinical isolates. The clinical isolates were
comprised of 52.0% fresh, 33.0% recent and 15.0% stock organisms
with the following performance (see table below).
Of the total number of isolates tested, 953 were appropriate strains for
this panel. The remaining 267 strains of S. epidermidis were not
included in the performance data evaluation; MIC’s and SIR
interpretation results for S. epidermidis will not be reported.
The FDA tobramycin drug insert provides breakpoints only for S.
aureus. With the exception of S. aureus, SIR interpretation results
from all other Gram positive organisms against tobramycin will be
automatically suppressed from reporting by the Phoenix BDXpert
Triggered Rules software; only MIC results will be reported.
Therefore, the table below contains the performance data for S. aureus
and Staphylococcus CNS other than S. epidermidis, for EA and Eval
EA, and S. aureus only for CA and the error rates.
Clinical and Challenge Data for S. aureus and Staphylococcus CNS other than
S. epidermidis
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA CA CA % #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA % Tot N
Clinical 914 855 93.5 87 74 85.1 769 757 98.4 269 5 1 6
Challenge 39 36 92.3 5 5 100.0 28 28 100.0 7 0 0 0
Combined 953 891 93.5 92 79 85.9 797 785 98.5 276 5 1 6
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
CA-Category Agreement vmj-very major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panels agree with the
reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling dilution of the reference
method. Category agreement (CA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panel result
interpretation agrees exactly with the reference panel result interpretation.
Evaluable (Eval) are results that are within the test range and on scale.

[Table 1 on page 6]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	CA
Tot	CA
N	CA %	#R	min	maj	vmj
Clinical	914	855	93.5	87	74	85.1	769	757	98.4	269	5	1	6
Challenge	39	36	92.3	5	5	100.0	28	28	100.0	7	0	0	0
Combined	953	891	93.5	92	79	85.9	797	785	98.5	276	5	1	6

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
Because of the limited number of on-scale results, as compared to the
total number of S. aureus tested, no real trending was observed.
The test device had a growth rate of >95%.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretive criteria = ≤ 4 (S), 8 (I), ≥ 16 (R) for Staphylococcus aureus.
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC for tobramycin utilized
in gram positive panels are the same for Staphylococcus aureus as those
recommended by FDA and CLSI. All values will be included in the package
insert.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision for tobramycin against S. aureus only