
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k052789
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification to the Triage BNP Test for the Beckman Coulter Immunoassay
Systems (k033383) to expand the Indications for Use as an aid in the risk
stratification of patients with heart failure.
C. Measurand:
B-type Natriuretic Peptide
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Biosite Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Triage BNP Test for the Beckman Coulter Immunoassay Systems
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1117, B-type natriuretic peptide test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NBC
4. Panel:
(75) Chemistry
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Triage BNP test is intended for use with Beckman Coulter Immunoassay
Systems (Access, Access 2, Synchron LXi 725 and UniCel Dxl 800) for the in
vitro quantitative measurement of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) in plasma
specimens using EDTA as the anticoagulant. The test is intended to be used as an
aid in the diagnosis and assessment of severity of congestive heart failure (also
referred to heart failure). The test is used for the risk stratification of patients with
acute coronary syndromes and for the risk stratification of patients with heart
failure.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Beckman Coulter Immunoassay Systems (Access, Access 2, Synchron LXi 725
and UniCel Dxl 800)
I. Device Description:
The test kit contains three reagents, R1a, R1b, and R1c. R1a consists of paramagnetic
particles coated with mouse omniclonal anti-human BNP antibody suspended in TRIS
buffered saline, with bovine serum albumin (BSA), 0.1% ProClin 300, and < 0.1%
sodium azide; R1b consisits of purified mouse and goat IgG in TRIS buffered saline
with 0.1% ProClin 300 and < 0.1% sodium azide; R1c consists of mouse monoclonal
anti-human BNP antibody-alkaline phosphatase bovine conjugate in PBS buffered
saline with BSA, 0.1% ProClin 300, and < 0.1% sodium azide.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Triage BNP Test for the Beckman Coulter Immunoassay Systems
Biosite Triage BNP Test
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k033383
k051787
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Assay principle Two site Same
immunoenzymatic
(sandwich) assay
Sample type EDTA plasma Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Indications for Use for the in vitro for the in vitro
quantitative measurement quantitative
of B-type natriuretic measurement of B-Type
peptide (BNP) in plasma Natriuretic Peptide
specimens using EDTA (BNP) in plasma
as the anticoagulant. The specimens using EDTA
test is intended to be used as the anticoagulant. The
as an aid in the diagnosis test is used as an aid in
and assessment of the diagnosis and
severity of congestive assessment of severity of
heart failure (also congestive heart failure
referred to heart failure). (also referred to as heart
The test is used for the failure). The test is also
risk stratification of used for the risk
patients with acute stratification of patients
coronary syndromes and with acute coronary
for the risk stratification syndromes.
of patients with heart
failure.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI H18-A2, CLSI EP5-A
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Assay principle			Two site
immunoenzymatic
(sandwich) assay			Same		
Sample type			EDTA plasma			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for Use			for the in vitro
quantitative measurement
of B-type natriuretic
peptide (BNP) in plasma
specimens using EDTA
as the anticoagulant. The
test is intended to be used
as an aid in the diagnosis
and assessment of
severity of congestive
heart failure (also
referred to heart failure).
The test is used for the
risk stratification of
patients with acute
coronary syndromes and
for the risk stratification
of patients with heart
failure.			for the in vitro
quantitative
measurement of B-Type
Natriuretic Peptide
(BNP) in plasma
specimens using EDTA
as the anticoagulant. The
test is used as an aid in
the diagnosis and
assessment of severity of
congestive heart failure
(also referred to as heart
failure). The test is also
used for the risk
stratification of patients
with acute coronary
syndromes.		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
The Triage BNP test is a two-site immunoenzymatic (“sandwich”) assay. A sample is
added to a reaction vessel with mouse monoclonal anti-human BNP antibody-alkaline
phosphatase conjugate and paramagnetic particles coated with mouse omniclonal
anti-human BNP antibody. BNP in human plasma binds to the immobilized anti-BNP
on the solid phase, while the mouse anti-BNP conjugate reacts specifically with
bound BNP. After incubation in a reaction vessel, separation in a magnetic field and
washing, remove materials not bound to the solid phase. A chemiluminescent
substrate, Lumi-Phos 530, is added to the reaction vessel and light generated by the
reaction is measured with a luminometer. The light production is directly proportional
to the concentration of BNP in the sample. The amount of analyte in the sample is
determined from a stored, multi-point calibration curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
d. Detection limit:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
e. Analytical specificity:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
4

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
BNP results less than or equal to 100 pg/mL are representative of normal
values in patients without CHF. BNP results greater than 100 pg/mL are
considered abnormal and suggestive of patients with CHF.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Previously demonstrated in comparison to Triage BNP test (k021317,
k051787) – refer to k033383. A comparison of 412 EDTA plasma samples
measured values using the Triage® BNP test on the Access Immunoassay
System and the Triage BNP test gave the following statistical data using the
Passing- Bablock regression analysis: n = 412, range of observations = 5 –
4970 pg/mL, slope = 1.00, r = 0.95, intercept = - 0.15. This device is identical
to the predicate device (k033383) except for a modification to the Indications
for Use.
b. Matrix comparison:
EDTA plasma is the only sample type indicated.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
b. Clinical specificity:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
To support the additional intended use, the sponsor provided five peer-
reviewed articles from the scientific literature assessing the clinical utility of
BNP measurements as an aid in the risk stratification of patients with heart
failure. All five studies utilized the Biosite Triage BNP device in their test
method. The Triage BNP Test for the Beckman Coulter Immunoassay
Systems correlates with (see Method Comparison section) and is identical to
the Biosite Triage BNP Test in principle, reagents and procedure.
5

--- Page 6 ---
In one additional paper titled “How well does B-type natriuretic peptide
predict death and cardiac events in patients with heart failure: systematic
review,” J.A. Doust et al. (British Medical Journal, volume 330, 19 March
2005) performed a systematic evidence-based medicine review of the
literature. The review included 24 studies in all. While the review included
studies with different study designs and test methods (BNP and NT-proBNP),
the five articles previously mentioned were part of the review. The authors
concluded that BNP was a strong prognostic indicator for patients with heart
failure.
All literature references are cited in the sponsor’s labeling.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Previously demonstrated for k033383. The data/information is included in the
labeling.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6