
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052577
B. Purpose for Submission:
Original 510(k)
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Ikonisys, Inc., Ikoniscope™ fastFISH™ Amnio Test System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH Amnio Test System detects amniotic cells stained by FISH
using commercially available direct labeled DNA probes or chromosomes X, Y, 13,
18, and 21.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH Amnio Test System is an automated scanning
microscope system incorporating automated slide loading and handling, low and
high magnification scanning to identify targets of interest and digital image
acquisition, coupled with an image analysis workstation. Microscope slides,
prepared according to the DNA probe manufacturers’ specifications, are placed
into a multiple slide cassette, and loaded into the Ikoniscope fastFISH Amnio test
system. The system unloads each slide, scans each one, and returns it to the
cassette automatically. During scanning, images of cells exhibiting the
predetermined characteristics for FISH signals are digitally photographed and
stored. After all the slides are scanned, the workstation provides an image gallery
for each slide that displays the image of each cell meeting predetermined
characteristics and quantity. The operator/reader can then evaluate the cell nuclei,
and make the diagnostic determination accordingly.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Ikonisys fastFISH imaging system combines elements of existing
technologies to perform its function. Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH)
uses commercially available DNA probes (not supplied with the test system) for
marking chromosomes 13, 18, 12, X and Y. Automated cell locating/counting
1

--- Page 2 ---
uses pattern recognition algorithms to identify the signal characteristics of
interest. The Ikoniscope software automatically captures an image of each cell
containing FISH signals and stores its location on the slide. These images are then
presented to the operator, using a computer workstation for analysis.
3. Modes of Operation:
N/A
4. Specimen Identification:
Barcode
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Amniotic fluid samples should be collected, handled, and prepared according to
the protocols for each clinical laboratory. Ikonisys cassettes hold one standard
microscope slide.
6. Calibration:
Calibration of the Ikoniscope is done at the time of installation by Ikonysis.
7. Quality Control:
ProbeChek® quality control slides provided by Abbott should be used with
AneuVysion® probes as recommended by the probe manufacturer.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________ Comprehensive software documentation at a
moderate level of concern was provided.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5260, Automated cell-locating device
2. Classification:
Class II
2

--- Page 3 ---
3 Product code:
JOY
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH Amnio Test System is an automated scanning
microscope coupled with image analysis, acquistition and display functions. It is
intended for in-vitro diagnosis as an aide to the technologist or pathologist in the
detection, classification and enumeration of cells of interest based on particular
characteristics, such as intensity, size, shape, or fluorescence. The Ikoniscope™
Amnio Test System is intended to detect amniotic cells stained by FISH using
commercially available direct labeled DNA probes or chromosomes X, Y, 13, 18,
and 21.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
N/A
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
BioView Ltd., Duet™ System (K001420)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Illumination Halogen Lamp Same
Basic Components Automated slide loading; Same
automated microscope;
camera; PC; keyboard
and control panel; color
monitor, color printer for
reports
Cells Targeted Amniocytes Same
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Illumination
Basic Components
Cells Targeted			Halogen Lamp
Automated slide loading;
automated microscope;
camera; PC; keyboard
and control panel; color
monitor, color printer for
reports
Amniocytes			Same
Same
Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Clinical Trial Test device compared Same
Comparison with standard FISH
analysis.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Method of Operation Automated epi- Automated microscopy
fluorescent microscopy in bright-field and
with monochrome digital fluorescent illumination
image capture of wave- with color digital image
length specific capture of color specific
fluorescent signals. fluorescent signals.
Microscope Objectives 10X, 100X (50X actual 10X, 60X
resolution)
Camera Monochrome, Digital Color, Digital
Image Presentation Pseudo-color image Color image
Clinical Trial Size 124 slides for 62 patients 133 slides for 68 patients
Indications for Use Amniotic fluid stained by 1. Hematopoetic cells
Matrix FISH using direct labeled stained by Giemsa stain,
DNA probes or immunochemistry or ISH
chromosomes X, Y, 13, (with brightfield or
18, and 21. fluorescent) prepared
from cell suspension.
2. Amniotic cells stained
by FISH (using direct
labeled DNA probes for
chromosomes X, Y, 13,
18, and 21.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Clinical Trial
Comparison			Test device compared
with standard FISH
analysis.			Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Method of Operation
Microscope Objectives
Camera
Image Presentation
Clinical Trial Size
Indications for Use
Matrix			Automated epi-
fluorescent microscopy
with monochrome digital
image capture of wave-
length specific
fluorescent signals.
10X, 100X (50X actual
resolution)
Monochrome, Digital
Pseudo-color image
124 slides for 62 patients
Amniotic fluid stained by
FISH using direct labeled
DNA probes or
chromosomes X, Y, 13,
18, and 21.			Automated microscopy
in bright-field and
fluorescent illumination
with color digital image
capture of color specific
fluorescent signals.
10X, 60X
Color, Digital
Color image
133 slides for 68 patients
1. Hematopoetic cells
stained by Giemsa stain,
immunochemistry or ISH
(with brightfield or
fluorescent) prepared
from cell suspension.
2. Amniotic cells stained
by FISH (using direct
labeled DNA probes for
chromosomes X, Y, 13,
18, and 21.		

--- Page 5 ---
a. Accuracy:
The accuracy study was a clinical trial that evaluated samples of amniotic
fluid obtained from women undergoing diagnostic amniocentesis. A total of
62 samples (124 slides) were evaluated. Samples were split and prepared for
FISH assay in the usual way, using the Vysis Aneu Vysion® probes and
following the approved Aneu Vysion protocol. Two sets of slides were
prepared from each sample. One set was analyzed using standard manual
microscopy and the other using the Ikonisys™ fastFISH™ Amnio Imaging
System. Trained cytotechnologists under blind conditions evaluated the
samples. The study endpoint was the diagnostic evaluation. There was a 100%
concordance of diagnostic results.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
The reproducibility study evaluated possible effects of operator, instrument, or
run on the reproducibility of results using the Ikonisys™ fastFISH Amnio
Imaging System. Slides for evaluation were prepared by the Sponsor and
shipped to the laboratory for testing. Slides for the study were produced using
two cultured human amniocyte cell lines. One line has the normal human
chromosome complement and the other is trisomic for chromosome 18.
Mixtures containing a low (10%) or high (70%) concentration of trisomic
cells were prepared from cultures of these lines. Slides containing fixed
interphase nuclei were prepared from these specimens following a standard
Carnoy fixation protocol. Hybridization of the slides was undertaken at the
testing laboratory using the Aneu Vysion™ Kit according to the
manufacturer’s instructions.
Slide sets were assembled randomly with regard to high and low-
concentration samples. Two sets of 10 slides were evaluated on each of four
separate instrument runs on different days. Two independent
cytotechnologists, who scored the slides in a blind fashion, evaluated the
image gallery produced for each slide. Of the 80 slides, 76 were able to be
processed. The trial endpoint was the detection of trisomic cells. In only one
case was there disagreement between the two independent technologists,
yielding an agreement rate of 98.7%. There was no affect of instrument,
operator, or run on the reproducibility of the results.
c. Linearity:
N/A
d. Carryover:
N/A
5

--- Page 6 ---
e. Interfering Substances:
N/A
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
N/A
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6