
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052716
B. Purpose for Submission:
For substantial equivalence determination
C. Measurand:
IgG Antibodies against Helicobacter pylori
D. Type of Test:
Rapid qualitative immunochromatographic assay
E. Applicant:
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RAPIRUN H. pylori antibody detection kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
Regulated under 21 CFR section 866.3110, Campylobacter fetus serological
reagents
2. Classification:
I
3. Product code:
LYR – Campylobacter pylori
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The RAPIRUN H. pylori antibody Detection kit is a rapid
immunochromatographic assay intended for the qualitative detection of antibodies
against Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) in urine to aid in the diagnosis of H. pylori
infection. The RAPIRUN kit is suitable for use in both point-of-care and clinical
laboratory settings.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The RAPIRUN H. pylori antibody Detection kit is a rapid
immunochromatographic assay intended for the qualitative detection of antibodies
against Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) in urine to aid in the diagnosis of H. pylori
infection. The RAPIRUN kit is suitable for use in both point-of-care and clinical
laboratory settings.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use and point-of-care use
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The RAPIRUN H. pylori antibody detection kit consists of a nitrocellulose membrane
test device, sample diluent and disposable pipettes. The test device consists of
Helicobacter pylori extracted protein, colloidal gold-conjugated anti-human IgG (Fc)
polyclonal antibody (goat). The sample diluent is buffer containing sodium azide.
The test device includes a sample window (S) in which the test specimen is placed
and an evaluation window in which a test line (T) and a control line (C) are visible.
Colloidal gold conjugated anti-human IgG (Fc) polyclonal antibody (goat) is present
between the sample window and the evaluation window. The test line and control
line in the evaluation window are immobilized with H. pylori antigen and with anti-
human IgG polyclonal antibodies (goat) respectively.
Each kit is sufficient for ten tests and is provided ready for use with no further
preparation necessary. Within the kit, each test device is individually packaged.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
1. Predicate device name(s):
HM-CAP H. pylori EIA test
Instant view H. pylori Rapid Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K984544, K955085, K944159
K024360
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Detection of H. pylori Same
antibodies as an aid in the
diagnosis of H. pylori
infection
Type of test Qualitative Same
Analyte IgG antibodies to Same
H.pylori
Methodology Immunoassay Same
User setting Point of care or clinical Clinical lab – HM CAP
lab Point of care- Instant
View
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Matrix Urine Serum or plasma - HM
CAP
Whole blood or serum –
Instant view
Detection method Visual inspection Absorbance – HM CAP
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Review Criteria for Assessment of Lab Tests for the detection of antibodies to
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Detection of H. pylori
antibodies as an aid in the
diagnosis of H. pylori
infection			Same		
Type of test			Qualitative			Same		
Analyte			IgG antibodies to
H.pylori			Same		
Methodology			Immunoassay			Same		
User setting			Point of care or clinical
lab			Clinical lab – HM CAP
Point of care- Instant
View		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Matrix			Urine			Serum or plasma - HM
CAP
Whole blood or serum –
Instant view		
Detection method			Visual inspection			Absorbance – HM CAP		

--- Page 4 ---
Helicobacter pylori. 1992 OIVD Guidance
L. Test Principle:
When a urine sample diluted with the sample diluent is added dropwise to the sample
window, the IgG in the diluted sample reacts with the conjugated antibodies.
Immunocomplexes are formed and flow into the nitrocellulose membrane. If anti H.
pylori IgG antibody complexes are present in these immunocomplexes, they react
with the H. pylori antigen immobilizing on the test line and are captured producing a
red band. On the other hand, immunocomplexes without anti H. pylori IgG
antibodies pass the test line and are captured by the anti-human IgG polyclonal
antibodies (goat) immobilizing on the control line producing a red band. If red
colored bands appear in both test and control zones, the test can be considered
positive. A red colored band only in the control zone is a negative test result. The
test result is invalid if no red colored band appears in the control zone.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Two studies were performed to assess the reproducibility of the RAPIRUN kit.
Control samples for both studies were prepared from pooled sera which were
negative and positive respectively, for anti-H. pylori antibodies. Three levels
of controls were tested: negative, weakly positive and highly positive. In the
first study, three lots of kits were tested on the same day. For each lot, 3
replicates of each of the three control samples were tested. The expected
negative and positive results were obtained in all cases. In the second study,
intra-day, inter-day, inter-operator and inter-lot reproducibility were evaluated
as follows
Intra-day One operator tested one lot at 3 different times on the same day
Inter-day One operator tested one lot on 3 different days
Inter-operator Three operators tested one lot on the same day
Inter-lot Three operators tested 3 different lots on 3 different days
The expected negative and positive results were obtained in all cases.
An additional study was performed using a panel of 8 urine specimens tested with
varying concentrations of H. pylori antibodies ( 2 each of negative, weakly
positive, positive and highly positive). 3 levels of control samples were also
tested. Evaluation was as follows:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Inter-lot One operator tested 3 different lots on the same day
Inter-day One operator tested one lot on 3 different days
Intra-day One operator tested one lot at three different times on the same day
Inter-operator Three operators tested one lot on the same day
The expected negative and positive results were obtained in all cases.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
N/A
d. Detection limit:
Three control samples that were negative, weakly positive and highly positive
for anti- H. pylori antibody were selected from pooled negative and pooled
positive sera respectively. The negative and positive samples were diluted
4000-fold with a 2 mmol/L Borax buffer solution containing 0.5% bovine
serum albumin. The highly positive Control sample was diluted 6-fold by the
negative sample to create a weakly positive control sample. The titer of anti-
H. pylori antibody contained in the weakly positive control sample
corresponds to that of the highly positive sample diluted 24000-fold.
e. Analytical specificity:
A cross reactivity study was performed to investigate the effects of proteins
extracted from the following bacteria on the test results obtained using the
RAPIRUN kit:
Enterococcus fecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus.
Test samples were prepared by adding proteins extracted from the bacteria to
two urine samples negative for anti H. pylori antibodies and three urine
samples positive for anti H. pylori antibodies. All test samples were run in
triplicate. None of the proteins extracted from the 6 bacteria had any effect
on the expected test results.
Interference Studies
5

--- Page 6 ---
An interference study was performed to investigate the effects of 26
substances on samples using the RAPIRUN kit. Each substance was added
individually to 2 urine samples negative for anti-H. pylori antibodies and to 2
urine samples positive for anti-H. pylori antibodies. Substances tested
included proteins, drugs and other metabolites considered to be possibly
present in urine. Interference was observed for human gamma-globulin,
human serum, and bilirubin F. No interference was observed for the
remaining 23 substances namely :
Human serum albumin, mucoprotein, glucose, hemoglobin, bilirubin C,
vitamin C, acetylsalicylic acid, caffeine, acetaminophen, atrophine,
norephedrine, uric acid, urea, creatine, creatinine, calcium oxalate, 5-
aminolevulinic acid, myoglobin, 3-hydroxybutyric acid, β -microglobulin, L-
2
Leucine, L-Cystine and acetone.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A multi-center prospective study was conducted at four Physicians Office
Labs (POL)/Point-of-Care (POC) settings. Subjects between the ages of 18
and 75 yrs who were either asymptomatic or experiencing dyspepsia were
recruited from the investigational sites. Specific inclusion and exclusion
criteria were listed. A urine specimen was collected from each of the 188
evaluable patients and tested with the RAPIRUN kit at the investigational
sites. A blood specimen was also collected from all subjects and tested with
the HM-CAP EIA test at a central testing laboratory. Additionally all patients
underwent a standard urea breath test (UBT) and the breath samples were
analyzed using the UBiT-IR300 Infrared Spectrophotometer method at the
investigational sites. The urine, serum and breath specimens for each patient
were collected on the same day. There were no deviations from the protocol.
No device malfunctions nor adverse events were reported. Results from the
RAPIRUN for the qualitative detection of antibodies to H. pylori in urine
were compared to results from the HM-CAP EIA for the detection of
antibodies to H. pylori in serum and to the UBiT-IR 300 Infrared
Spectrophotometer for measuring 13CO enrichment in breath.
2
Results of RAPIRUN vs. HM-CAP:
% Overall Agreement: 87.23% (81.97 – 91.39 % C.I.)
% Positive agreement: 84.71% (75.82 – 91.30% C.I.)
6

--- Page 7 ---
% Negative Agreement: 89.32% (81.96 – 94.31% C.I.)
Results of RAPIRUN vs. UBiT-IR300
% Overall Agreement: 93.09% (88.51 – 96.27% C.I.)
% Positive Agreement: 86.46% (78.53 – 92.40 % C.I.)
% Negative Agreement: 100.00% (96.17 – 100.00% C.I.)
b. Matrix comparison:
Urine, serum and breath samples for each patient were collected on the same
day. Results from the RAPIRUN (urine matrix) were compared to those from
the HM-CAP EIA (serum matrix) and to the UBiT-IR 300 Infrared
spectrophotometer for measuring 13CO enrichment in breath. See 2(a) above.
2
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Prevalence of H. pylori infection varies widely across the USA and is associated
with age, ethnic and socioeconomic factors. Prevalence has been shown to
increase with age at about 1% per year for the overall population. Overall
frequency of H. pylori infection has been reported as 33% with higher rates in
some ethnic groups. One hundred and eighty eight subjects symptomatic and
asymptomatic, ranging from 18 – 73 years were enrolled at 4 POC/POL settings.
Urine specimens from 83 subjects (44%) tested positive and 105 (56%) tested
negative with the RAPIRUN kit.
7

--- Page 8 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
8