
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052825
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen Kit
C. Measurand:
Factor VIII Antigen (FVIII-AG)
D. Type of Test:
Enzyme Immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Affinity Biologicals, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen Kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7290
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGP
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit is an Enzyme Immunoassay for the
quantitative determination of Factor VIII antigen in human plasma samples and
Factor VIII concentrates using the double antibody enzyme linked immuno-
sorbent assay (ELISA).
2. Indication(s) for use:
The VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen Kit is intended for use as an in vitro
diagnostic assay for the quantitative determination of Factor VIII antigen in
human plasma samples and Factor VIII concentrates using the double antibody
enzyme linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA).
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
The VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit contains all reagents necessary to perform
the ELISA assay. VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen is a sandwich enzyme-linked
immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA) using a pre-coated sheep polyclonal antibody 96-well
format. Plasma samples are diluted and applied to the pre-coated wells. After
washing away unbound proteins, a horseradish peroxidase (HRP) labeled polyclonal
antibody is applied to detect the captured Factor VIII. A chromogenic substrate
(TMB) is added to allow for color development. The color formed is measured
spectrophotometrically at 450 nm, with the absorbance being directly proportional to
the concentration of Factor VIII that was in the sample.
The kit components include calibrator plasma, control plasmas, sample diluent, wash
buffer and stop solution.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Coamatic® Factor VIII
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K981038
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Sample matrix Citrated human plasma, 3.2% Citrated plasma, 0.1 mol/L
Intended Use Quantitative determination of Same
FVIII in human plasma and
and FVIII concentrates
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Assay principle Quantitative determination of Quantitative determination of
Factor VIII antigen by ELISA Factor VIII activity by Factor
Xa chromogenic assay
Intended Use An enzyme immunoassay for For the photometric
the quantitative determination determination of FVIII activity
of FVIII antigen in human in plasma such as when
plasma samples and FVIII identifying FVIII deficiency or
concentrates using the double monitoring patients on
antibody ELISA replacement therapy as well as
for potency estimation of FVIII
concentrates
Technology Double antibody enzyme Chromogenic based
linked immuno-sorbent assay
(ELISA)
Linearity Log-log curve Linear curve
Traceability of calibrator Calibrator standardized against Not provided with the kit
a secondary standard traceable
to the WHO International
Standard for FVIII antigen
Detection limit 0.008 IU/ml (0.8%) Normal range: 0.05 IU/ml
Low range: 0.005 IU/ml
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory; Approved
Guideline, Second Edition, C28-A2, CLSI, Vol. 15 No. 4, June 2000.
Protocols for Determination of Limits of Detections and Limits of Quantitation; Proposed
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample matrix			Citrated human plasma, 3.2%			Citrated plasma, 0.1 mol/L		
Intended Use			Quantitative determination of
FVIII in human plasma and
and FVIII concentrates			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Assay principle			Quantitative determination of
Factor VIII antigen by ELISA			Quantitative determination of
Factor VIII activity by Factor
Xa chromogenic assay		
Intended Use			An enzyme immunoassay for
the quantitative determination
of FVIII antigen in human
plasma samples and FVIII
concentrates using the double
antibody ELISA			For the photometric
determination of FVIII activity
in plasma such as when
identifying FVIII deficiency or
monitoring patients on
replacement therapy as well as
for potency estimation of FVIII
concentrates		
Technology			Double antibody enzyme
linked immuno-sorbent assay
(ELISA)			Chromogenic based		
Linearity			Log-log curve			Linear curve		
Traceability of calibrator			Calibrator standardized against
a secondary standard traceable
to the WHO International
Standard for FVIII antigen			Not provided with the kit		
Detection limit			0.008 IU/ml (0.8%)			Normal range: 0.05 IU/ml
Low range: 0.005 IU/ml		

--- Page 4 ---
Guideline, EP17-P, NCCLS, March 2004.
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices, EP5-A, CLSI, Feb.
1999.
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry, EP-7P, NCCLS, Aug. 1996.
Collection, Transport and Processing of Blood Specimens for Coagulation Testing and
General Performance of Coagulation Assays, Third Edition, H21-A4, CLSI, 1998.
L. Test Principle:
Strip wells are pre-coated with sheep polyclonal antibody to human VIII. Plasma
samples are diluted and applied to the wells. The FVIII antigen present binds to the
coated antibody. After washing away unbound material, peroxidase-labeled sheep
detecting antibody is applied and allowed to bind to the captured FVIII. The wells
are again washed and a solution of TMB (tetramethylbenzidine peroxidase substrate)
is applied and allowed to react for a fixed period of time. The yellow color formed is
measured spectrophotometrically in a microplate reader at 450 nm. The absorbance
at 450 nm is directly proportional to the quantity of FVIII captured onto the well.
The assay is calibrated using the calibrator plasma provided in the kit and the Factor
VIII antigen level in plasma is derived from this reference curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra-assay precision (variability within a plate for VIII antigen
determinations) was determined by two methods on the three validation lots of
VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit.
Method 1: Control Plasma A and Control Plasma B were tested across four
plates from each validation lot (two operators ran two plates each). The FVIII
antigen overall mean CV was 4.56% with mean CV’s ranging from 2.02 –
8.48%.
Method 2: Three plasma samples were assessed at different levels of FVIII.
For each sample, eight replicates were run over 10 days, with assays
performed by two operators each day. The intra-assay CV was calculated
according to CLSI Guideline EP5-A. Method 2 reported a mean CV of
4.51%.
Inter-assay precision (variability between plates of the same lot) was
determined from three plasma samples at different levels of FVIII. For each
4

--- Page 5 ---
sample, eight replicates were run over 10 days, with assays performed by two
operators each day. The overall mean inter-assay CV was 4.69%.
Inter-assay, inter-lot precision was determined by comparing the values
recovered in three validation lots for 94 plasma samples (23 clinical samples,
55 normal samples and 16 artificial samples prepared by mixing plasmas with
known concentrations of FVIII with Factor VIII deficient plasma. Each
sample was tested in duplicate. The mean inter-assay, inter-lot CV for FVIII
antigen was 7.78%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity of the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit was evaluated by
analyzing calibration curves prepared from the kit supplied Calibrator Plasma.
Calibrator plasma dilutions were prepared and tested in duplicate by two
different operators on 5 plates per operator in three validation lots. For each
assay, the mean optical density (O.D.) of each Calibrator Plasma dilution was
plotted against its Factor VIII concentration, in log-log format (log O.D. vs.
log of Factor VIII concentration). The linearity of each curve was calculated
by linear regression and expressed as the coefficient of determination (R2).
The calibration curve was considered linear if the R2 ≥ 0.990. The average R2
from the 30 assay events (10 events per validation lot) was 0.9928 (range =
0.990 – 0.996) when linearity of the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit was
tested.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The calibrator plasma supplied with each kit is a lyophilized assayed normal
plasma pool used to prepare a reference curve in the VisuLize™ Factor VIII
Antigen kit. The calibrator plasma is prepared from a frozen pool of citrated
plasma from healthy donors and is standardized against an internal secondary
standard that is traceable to the WHO International Standard for Factor VIII
antigen (97/586). Value assignment for each lot of calibrator plasma is
determined by testing 21 vials at four dilutions each by two operators and
calculating the mean value of the determinations.
The control plasmas supplied with each kit are lyophilized assayed plasma
pools. Control Plasma A is a normal control in the range of 0.6 – 2.0 IU/ml
(60 – 200%) Factor VIII and is prepared from a frozen pool of citrated plasma
from healthy donors. Control Plasma B is an abnormal low control in the
range of 0.01 – 0.1 IU/ml (1 – 10%) Factor VIII and is prepared from a frozen
pool of FVIII deficient and normal plasma with a known FVIII level. The
normal plasma is added to the deficient plasma to bring the Factor VIII value
within the targeted range. The calibrator plasma is used to assign values to
the control plasmas. Ranges are assigned to the control plasmas by testing 21
vials of each at two dilutions each by two operators and calculating the mean
5

--- Page 6 ---
± 2 standard deviations.
Current real-time stability studies are ongoing for VisuLize™ Factor VIII
Antigen kit and stability data is available for 13 months for lot 1, 12 months
for lot 2, and 6 months validation for lot 3. Testing is to be continued for 24
months in order to claim a shelf-life of 18 months. All kit components were
stored at 2-8°C and tested at monthly intervals. Two plasma controls were
tested using the kit components from each validation lot. Assay specifications
for stability include:
• Absorbance of the top point of the standard should be > 1.0
• Mean O.D. of the reagent blank must be < 0.100
• Controls should recover within assigned ELISA ranges for the kit
In order to assess the kit stability at 18 months, accelerated stability studies
were performed according to EN 13640:2002 (European Committee for
Standardization, March 2002). One kit from each validation lot was incubated
at 36°C for 17.5 days and a second kit from each lot was incubated at 48°C for
5.9 days. Incubation times and temperatures are approximately equivalent to
18 months at 2-8°C plus on week at 25°C. Assay specifications for
accelerated stability include:
• Absorbance of the top point of the standard should be > 1.0
• Mean O.D. of the reagent blank must be < 0.100
• Controls should recover within assigned ELISA ranges for the kit
• Linearity of reference curve (R2) should be ≥ 0.990
Absorbance values were within the required specifications for real-time and
accelerated stability.
d. Detection limit:
Two methods were used to determine the lower limit of the detection range
for the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit. Both methods were tested on
three validation lots.
In the first method, the lower limit of detection was determined to be the
lowest amount of Factor VIII that could be distinguished from the blank by a
difference of three standard deviations.
The second method involved testing samples containing <1% (<0.01 IU/ml)
Factor VIII in order to determine if they could be detected. The limit of
detection (lowest absorbance that would be detected) was calculated
according to NCCLS guideline EP17-P. The samples were prepared by
mixing normal plasma with a known Factor VIII activity level with Factor
VIII deficient plasma. A minimum of five replicates per sample was analyzed
6

--- Page 7 ---
using a 1:4 dilution as per the product insert instructions. A minimum of 20
blank wells was also run in the same assay events as the test samples. The
mean absorbance (O.D.) and standard deviation for each of the test samples as
well as the mean and standard deviation for the reagent blank were calculated.
The lower limit of detection is set at 0.008 IU/ml (0.8%). The upper limit of
detection may vary slightly with each lot if kit depending on the assayed value
of the calibrator supplied in the kit.
e. Analytical specificity:
Assay interference was assessed by determining the effect of various
endogenous and exogenous substances on the recovery of FVIII in samples
containing normal FVIII levels and < 0.1 IU/ml Factor VIII. The assays were
conducted according to CLSI guideline EP7-P using the paired difference
method. Spiked plasmas were compared to unspiked control samples. For the
clinically important samples, (i.e., those containing low levels of FVIII),
interference was defined as those substances that produce an absolute
difference of > 0.01 IU/ml between the control and test samples. The results
of testing the potential interferents in the clinically important samples
indicated that no interference was observed, i.e., differences between test and
control samples were < 0.01 IU/ml.
To determine the effect if different anticoagulants on the assay, plasma
samples were collected in EDTA, heparin, and oxalate anticoagulants and
compared to samples simultaneously collected in 3.2% sodium citrate. Some
variability was observed in the recovered FVIII, thus the product labeling
indicated that samples must be collected in 3.2% sodium citrate.
To test for possible interference of von Willebrand Factor (vWF) in the assay,
FVIII immune-depleted plasma was spiked with varying concentrations of
purified vWF (20%, 50% and 100%) and assayed in the three validation lots.
All test samples reported out of range results indicating that vWF is not
detected by the assay.
The effect of lupus anticoagulant (LA) on the assay results was investigated
by testing patient plasmas with LA in the presence and absence of platelet
lysate (PL). Normal plasmas were also tested in the same assays in the
absence and presence of platelet lysate as a control. The PL was added to the
samples in order to neutralize any effect of the LA. The assays produced
similar results for both the LA positive plasmas and the normal plasma
controls indicating no interference in the assay that is attributable to LA.
Interference was observed for samples positive for Rheumatoid Factor and the
possibility of anti-sheep antibodies in test samples. Therefore, these
interferences are noted in the product labeling.
7

--- Page 8 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Three validation lots of the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit were used to
define the performance characteristics of the proposed device. Testing of
clinical samples was conducted internally and by two external testing sites.
For internal testing, a total of 142 samples were assayed. All samples, except
in-house controls and von Willebrand spiked samples were commercially
obtained. Each sample was tested in duplicate in the three validation lots of
the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit and in the Coamatic® Factor VIII
assay. Statistical evaluation of the entire group of clinical samples resulted in
a Pearson Product Moment correlation coefficient (r) value of 0.968.
At the first external site, 100 commercially available samples were assayed
(duplicate testing) in one lot of the proposed device and in the predicate
device. A comparison of the results obtained with the VisuLize™ Factor VIII
Antigen kit and the predicate device, Coamatic® Factor VIII assay,
demonstrated a correlation coefficient (r) value of 0.964.
At the second external site, 81 commercially available samples were assayed
(duplicate testing) in one lot of the proposed device and in the predicate
device. A comparison of the results obtained with the VisuLize™ Factor VIII
Antigen kit and the predicate device, Coamatic® Factor VIII assay,
demonstrated a correlation coefficient (r) value of 0.974.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not assessed
b. Clinical specificity:
Not assessed
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
8

--- Page 9 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The reference range for Factor VIII in normal plasma samples as reported in the
literature is 50% - 180% of that in pooled normal plasma. The reference range of
the VisuLize™ Factor VIII Antigen kit was challenged by testing 99 citrated
plasma samples from healthy individuals with no known history of Hemophilia A
in each of three validation lots. All samples were tested in duplicate in each lot.
The overall 95% reference interval was calculated by using the mean ± 2SD from
all values obtained with the three validation lots and will be reported as 0.64 –
1.89 IU/ml (mean all results = 1.268 IU/ml, SD = 0.3116).
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
9