
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k052053
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Urine Toxicology Control Material (Drug Mixture) for the following analytes:
Amphetamines (d-Amphetamine, d-Methamphetamine and MDMA), Barbiturates
(Secobarbital), Benzodiazepines (Nordiazepam and Oxazepam), Cannabinoids
(11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9-COOH), Cocaine (Benzoylecgonine), Ethanol, LSD,
Methadone, Methaqualone, Opiates (Morphine, free), Oxycodone, Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene and TCA ( Nortriptyline).
D. Type of Test:
Control Material
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquicheck Urine Toxicology Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR§862.3280
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
DIF
4. Panel:
91
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use
2. Indication(s) for use:
Liquichek Qualitative Urine Toxicology Control is intended for use as an assayed
quality control urine to monitor the performance of laboratory procedures for
qualitative urine toxicology.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
Liquichek Qualitative Urine Toxicology Controls are prepared from human urine
with added drugs of abuse and metabolites of drugs of abuse, preservatives,
stabilizers and constituents of animal origin. The control is provided in liquid form.
The control contains Amphetamines (d-Amphetamine, d-Methamphetamine and
MDMA), Barbiturates (Secobarbital), Benzodiazepines (Nordiazepam and
Oxazepam), Cannabinoids (11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9-COOH), Cocaine (Benzoylecgonine),
Ethanol, LSD, Methadone, Methaqualone, Opiates (Morphine, free), Oxycodone,
Phencyclidine, Propoxyphene and TCA ( Nortriptyline).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Liquichek Qualitative Urine Toxicology Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
k033366
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Liquichek Qualitative Urine Liquichek Qualitative Urine
Toxicology Control is intended Toxicology Control is intended
for use as an assayed quality for use as an assayed quality
control urine to monitor the control urine to monitor the
performance of laboratory performance of laboratory
procedures for qualitative urine procedures for qualitative urine
toxicology. toxicology.
Form Liquid Liquid
Matrix Urine Urine
Storage 2-8ºC until expiration date 2-8ºC until expiration date
(unopened)
Open Vial 30 days at 2-8ºC or 18-25ºC 30 days at 2-8ºC or 18-25ºC
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analytes Amphetamines (d- Amphetamines (d-
Amphetamine, d- Amphetamine, d-
Methamphetamine and Methamphetamine and
MDMA), Barbiturates MDMA), Barbiturates
(Secobarbital), (Secobarbital),
Benzodiazepines Benzodiazepines
(Nordiazepam and (Nordiazepam and
Oxazepam), Cannabinoids Oxazepam), Cannabinoids
(11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9- (11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9-
COOH), Cocaine COOH), Cocaine
(Benzoylecgonine), (Benzoylecgonine),
Ethanol, LSD, Methadone, Ethanol, LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone, Opiates Methaqualone, Opiates
(Morphine, free), (Morphine, free),
Oxycodone, Phencyclidine, Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene and TCA ( Propoxyphene and TCA (
Nortriptyline). Nortriptyline).
Does not contain Oxycodone
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None Referenced
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Liquichek Qualitative Urine
Toxicology Control is intended
for use as an assayed quality
control urine to monitor the
performance of laboratory
procedures for qualitative urine
toxicology.			Liquichek Qualitative Urine
Toxicology Control is intended
for use as an assayed quality
control urine to monitor the
performance of laboratory
procedures for qualitative urine
toxicology.		
Form			Liquid			Liquid		
Matrix			Urine			Urine		
Storage
(unopened)			2-8ºC until expiration date			2-8ºC until expiration date		
Open Vial			30 days at 2-8ºC or 18-25ºC			30 days at 2-8ºC or 18-25ºC		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analytes			Amphetamines (d-
Amphetamine, d-
Methamphetamine and
MDMA), Barbiturates
(Secobarbital),
Benzodiazepines
(Nordiazepam and
Oxazepam), Cannabinoids
(11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9-
COOH), Cocaine
(Benzoylecgonine),
Ethanol, LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone, Opiates
(Morphine, free),
Oxycodone, Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene and TCA (
Nortriptyline).			Amphetamines (d-
Amphetamine, d-
Methamphetamine and
MDMA), Barbiturates
(Secobarbital),
Benzodiazepines
(Nordiazepam and
Oxazepam), Cannabinoids
(11-Nor-Δ-9-THC-9-
COOH), Cocaine
(Benzoylecgonine),
Ethanol, LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone, Opiates
(Morphine, free),
Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene and TCA (
Nortriptyline).
Does not contain Oxycodone		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable. This submission is for clearance of control material.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment is based on multiple days and duplicate analyses of control
solutions at 3 reference laboratories, using HPLC for nortriptyline,
LC/MS/MS for LSD and GCMS for all other drugs. The manufacturer
recommends that laboratories using Liquicheck controls should use these
results only as a reference and establish its own parameters for performance.
Open vial stability 2-8 °C was tested at 6 time points (0, 8, 14, 22, 30 and 39
days), the last of which (T ) extends to 20% longer than the expiration date
final
of the control. The acceptance criterion was defined as positive reactions for
Positive control and negative reactions for Negative control at both T and
zero
T test points.
Final
Closed stability was determined using an accelerated stability study and the
product was predicated to have a 3 year shelf life when stored at 2-8ºC. The
product was tested at three elevated temperatures and the shelf stability was
predicated using a stability model with activation energy of 20-kCal/mole.
Acceptance criterion was defined as positive reactions for Positive control and
negative reactions for Negative control at accelerated period of time
equivalent to > 3 years at normal storage conditions.
Real-time stability studies are ongoing. The test vials have been stored at 2-
8ºC and at -20ºC (pseudo T ) and will be tested at several time points. The
zero
qualitative results for each time point will be compared against T values.
zero
Failure is assumed to have taken place when the analyte qualitative results do
not indicate a positive reaction for Positive control and negative reaction for
negative control.
d. Detection limit:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6