
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k052679
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Bilirubin
D. Type of Test:
N/A
E. Applicant:
Cliniqa Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
-Cliniqa Liquid QC Bilirubin Controls Levels 1, 2, & 3
-Cliniqa LiniCAL Bilirubin Calibration Verifiers Levels A - E for Olympus AU
Systems
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJX, single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cliniqa Liquid QC Bilirubin Controls Levels 1, 2, & 3 are assayed, liquid, quality
control products which may be used to evaluate the performance of clinical
methods for Total and Direct Bilirubin.
Cliniqa LiniCAL Bilirubin Calibration Verifiers Levels A - E for Olympus AU
Systems are assayed, liquid, quality control products which may be used to
evaluate the performance of the Olympus AU Systems for Total and Direct
Bilirubin.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use section above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special instrument requirements:
The calibration verifiers are to be used with the Olympus AU systems only. The
liquid QC controls may be used with a number of automated chemistry analyzers.
I. Device Description:
Cliniqa Liquid QC Bilirubin Controls Levels 1, 2, & 3 are prepared from human
serum and purified chemicals. Preservatives and stabilizers are added to maintain
product integrity. Cliniqa LiniCAL Bilirubin Calibration Verifiers Levels A - E for
Olympus AU Systems are human-serum based, containing constituents of human
origin and are used in the clinical laboratory to verify calibration and/or assess
linearity of the Olympus AU Systems. Five assayed levels of Bilirubin are provided
to allow monitoring of the reportable range.
Each serum donor unit used to manufacturethis product was tested for Hepatitis B
Surface Antigen (HBsAg), HIV-1 antigen, antibody to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and
ntibody to HIV-1/2 and found non-reactive using FDA accepted test methods.
Cliniqa Liquid QC Bilirubin Controls Levels 1, 2, & 3 are 0.30, 7.76, and 22.6 mg/dL
for total bilirubin respectively and 0.10, 3.20, and 8.07 mg/dL for direct bilirubin
respectively.
The Cliniqa LiniCAL Bilirubin CalibrationVerifiers Levels A - E for Olympus AU
Systems have a series of analyte concentrations ranging from 0.30 mg/dL to 32
mg/dL for total bilirubin and 0.10 mg/dL to 10.6 mg/dL for direct bilirubin.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s): MAS Bilirubin Control and LiniCAL Chemistry
Calibration Verifiers Levels A – E for Olympus AU Systems
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s): k031890 and k033162
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Bilirubin Control/Calibrator Bilirubin Control/Multi-
Verifier analyte Calibrator Verifier
Origin Human serum Human serum - Calibrator
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Control: Bilirubin Control: Bilirubin
Calibrator Verifier: Bilirubin Calibrator Verifier: N/A
Origin Human serum Bovine serum – Control
Stability Both: Open vial at 2-8ºC = Both: Open vial at 2-8ºC =
30 days 14 days
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Bilirubin Control/Calibrator
Verifier			Bilirubin Control/Multi-
analyte Calibrator Verifier		
Origin			Human serum			Human serum - Calibrator		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			Control: Bilirubin
Calibrator Verifier: Bilirubin			Control: Bilirubin
Calibrator Verifier: N/A		
Origin			Human serum			Bovine serum – Control		
Stability			Both: Open vial at 2-8ºC =
30 days			Both: Open vial at 2-8ºC =
14 days		

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable): None Referenced
L. Test Principle: N/A
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility: N/A
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The Olympus instrument, reagents and calibrators are standardized to the
NIST Standard Reference Material (SRM) 916a.
Stability
Stability characteristics of the CliniqaLiquid QC Bilirubin Controls Levels 1,
2, & 3 and the of Cliniqa LiniCAL Bilirubin Calibration Verifiers Levels A -
E for Olympus AU Systems were determined using the Arrhenius model of
accelerated elevated temperature studiesto predict estimated storage stability
at 2 – 8 ºC. Open vial stability was determined in a real time on board stability
study at 2-8 ºC on an Olympus AU 400 chemistry analyzer.
Expected Values
Expected values presented in each lot-specific insert of Cliniqa Liquid QC
Bilirubin Controls Levels 1, 2, & 3 will be generated on the Olympus AU
System.
Expected values presented in each lot-specific insert of Cliniqa LiniCAL
Bilirubin Calibration Verifiers Levels A - E for Olympus AU Systems will be
generated on the Olympus AU Systems.
Data points will be obtained from replicate assays obtained by multiple
laboratories. At least two sets of data and a minimum of 12 data points will
be used to determine the mean. Within and between assay Standard
Deviations and Coefficient of Variations will be calculated for each set of
data.
d. Detection limit: N/A
3

--- Page 4 ---
e. Analytical specificity: N/A
f. Assay cut-off: N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device: N/A
b. Matrix comparison: N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity: N/A
b. Clinical specificity: N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable): N/A
4. Clinical cut-off: N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range: N/A
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
4