
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K052876
B. Purpose for Submission:
Introduction of the antibiotic Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™
C. Measurand:
Telithromycin 15 µg
D. Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
E. Applicant:
Becton Dickinson and Company, BD Diagnostic Systems
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1620 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JTN – Susceptibility Test Disc, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1

--- Page 2 ---
1. Intended use(s):
Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ are intended for use for semi-quantitative
in vitro susceptibility testing by the agar disc diffusion test procedure of common
rapidly growing and certain fastidious bacterial pathogens. These include the
Enterobacteriaceae, Staphylococcus spp., Pseudomonas spp., Acinetobacter spp.,
Enterococcus spp., Vibrio cholerae and by modified procedures, Haemophilus
influenzae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and other
streptococci.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ are indicated for in vitro agar diffusion
susceptibility testing when there is a need to determine the susceptibility of bacteria
to telithromycin. The concentration of telithromycin 15 µg has been shown to be
active in vitro against most strains of the microorganisms listed: Staphylococcus
aureus (methicillin and erythromycin susceptible only), Streptococcus pneumoniae
(including multi-drug resistant isolates), Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus
pyogenes (erythromycin susceptible isolates only), Streptococci (Lancefield groups C
and G) and Viridans group streptococci.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The ability of the Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ to detect resistance with
Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin and erythromycin susceptible isolates only) is
unknown because these strains have not yet been detected and should be retested. If
the non-susceptible result is obtained the strain should be sent to a reference
laboratory for further testing.
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
Telithromycin 15 µg BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ utilizes 6-mm disks prepared by impregnating
absorbent paper with a known concentration of telithromycin. Disks are marked on both
sides with letters and numbers designating the agent and the drug concentration. Sensi-
Disc™ agents are furnished in cartridges containing 50 disks each.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Ciprofloxacin
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
K874425
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use An in vitro diagnostic same
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
aerobic gram positive and
gram negative bacteria
Inoculum Prepared from colonies same
using the direct
inoculation method or
growth method
Inoculation method Direct equated to a 0.5 same
McFarland turbidity
standard
Difference
Item Device Predicate
Antibiotic telithromycin ciprofloxacin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI/NCCLS M7 (M100-S15) “Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests
for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically; Approved Standard”. The Center for Drug
Evaluation and Review (CDER) pharmaceutical approved package insert, developed
during clinical trial studies, was used for Interpretive Criteria and Quality Control (QC)
Expected Ranges.
L. Test Principle:
BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ utilize dried filter paper disks impregnated with known
concentrations of antimicrobial agents that are placed onto the test medium surface. The
standard method of testing is the Kirby-Bauer method. The recommended test medium is
cation-adjusted Mueller-Hinton agar supplemented with the appropriate concentration of
calcium. Four to five colonies are transferred to 5 ml of a suitable broth medium. The
broth is incubated at 35-37° C for 2 to 8 hours until a light to moderate turbidity
develops. Alternately, a direct broth or saline suspension of colonies may be prepared
from an 18-24 hour agar plate culture. The final inoculum density should be equivalent to
a 0.5 McFarland turbidity standard. The inoculum density may also be standardized
photometrically. Within 15 minutes of inoculum preparation, the Mueller-Hinton agar is
streaked to obtain an even inoculation. Disks are aseptically placed onto the agar surface
with a disc dispenser or sterile forceps to ensure contact with the test surface. Plates are
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			An in vitro diagnostic
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
aerobic gram positive and
gram negative bacteria			same		
Inoculum			Prepared from colonies
using the direct
inoculation method or
growth method			same		
Inoculation method			Direct equated to a 0.5
McFarland turbidity
standard			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Difference								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibiotic			telithromycin			ciprofloxacin		

--- Page 4 ---
incubated in an ambient air incubator at 35-37° C. Fastidious organisms (Haemophilus
spp., Neisseria gonorrhoeae and some Streptococcus pneumoniae) are tested using
appropriate media incubated in a CO enriched atmosphere, as recommended in the CLSI
2
M7 Approved Standard document. After incubation the media is examined, and zones of
inhibition around the disks are measured and compared against recognized zone size
ranges for the antimicrobial agent being tested.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
Descriptive characteristics were sufficient for this disk, because the drug studies,
evaluated by CDER at the time of telithromycin approval, generated the Interpretive
Criteria and QC Expected Ranges.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range in millimeters:
Staphylococcus aureus >=22 (S)*
Streptococcus pneumoniae >=19 (S), 16-18 (I), <=15 (R)
Haemophilus species >=15 (S), 12-14 (I), <=11 (R)
N. Proposed Labeling:
The Interpretive Criteria, Q.C. isolates and the Expected Ranges are the same as
recommended by the FDA/CDER in the approved pharmaceutical package insert.
All values will be included in the device package insert. The labeling is sufficient and
it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
*The current absence of data on Methicillin Susceptible Staphylococcus aureus resistant
strains precludes defining any results other than “Susceptible”. Strains yielding results
suggestive of a “non-susceptible” category should be submitted to a reference laboratory
for further testing.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5