
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k053247
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
CK-MB, Myoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Calibration Verification Material
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Proprietary Name - VALIDATE® Cardiac Marker Calibration Verification Test Sets
Established Name – Quality Control Material
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660
2. Classification:
Class I (reserved)
3. Product code:
JJY
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
75 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The VALIDATE® Cardiac Marker Calibration Verification Test Sets are used by
trained laboratory professionals for quantitatively verifying calibration, validating
reportable ranges, and determining linearity in automated, semi-automated and
manual chemistry systems for CK-MB and Myoglobin.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The VALIDATE® Cardiac Marker Calibration Verification Test Sets are used by
trained laboratory professionals. They are not intended for use as routine quality
control materials or as calibration materials. They are not intended for use with
systems employing reflectance spectroscopy
4. Special instrument requirements:
Automated, semi-automated and manual chemistry systems.
I. Device Description:
The VALIDATE® Cardiac Marker Calibration (CM1) Verification Test Set contains
CK-MB and myoglobin in a human serum matrix. It is comprised of one bottle each
of six (6) levels including zero. The sponsor states that for both analytes the contents
of Level 0 and Level 1 are identical and should recover the same value. Each bottle
contains 3mL and is shipped frozen.
The CM1 Test Set was tested and found negative for HIV-1/2, HCV, HBV, and HBsAg by
FDA approved methods.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad Liquichek Cardiac Markers Control LT
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k040277
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate (Bio-Rad)
Matrix Same Human Serum
Preparation Same Liquid, ready to use
Storage Same -10 to -20o C
Differences
Item Device Predicate (Bio-Rad)
For in vitro diagnostic
use in quantitatively
verifying calibration, For use as an assayed
validating reportable quality control serum to
Intended Use ranges, and monitor the precision
determining linearity in of laboratory testing
automated, semi- procedures.
automated, and manual
chemistry analyzers.
Number of Levels 6 including zero 3
CK-MB, Myoglobin,
Digitoxin,
Analytes CK-MB, Myoglobin Homocysteine, NT-
ProBNP, Troponin-I,
Troponin-T
Stability Until expiration 10 days after opening
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP-6A: Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures:
A Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline
Guidance for Industry: Points to Consider Guidance Document on Assayed and
Unassayed Quality Control Material
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate (Bio-Rad)	
Matrix			Same			Human Serum		
Preparation			Same			Liquid, ready to use		
Storage			Same			-10 to -20o C		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate (Bio-Rad)	
Intended Use			For in vitro diagnostic
use in quantitatively
verifying calibration,
validating reportable
ranges, and
determining linearity in
automated, semi-
automated, and manual
chemistry analyzers.			For use as an assayed
quality control serum to
monitor the precision
of laboratory testing
procedures.		
Number of Levels			6 including zero			3		
Analytes			CK-MB, Myoglobin			CK-MB, Myoglobin,
Digitoxin,
Homocysteine, NT-
ProBNP, Troponin-I,
Troponin-T		
Stability			Until expiration			10 days after opening		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The raw materials (purified human CK-MB and myoglobin) are processed
into a stock solution, analyzed, and spiked into the human serum base matrix.
The product also includes stabilizers and preservatives. The sponsor states
that for value assignment, levels 0, 1, and 5 are assayed in triplicate in three
analytical runs while levels 2, 3, and 4 are assayed in triplicate in two
analytical runs. Two levels of control material are run with each
determination and must fall within the cited acceptance range for the run to be
accepted.
Stability is assessed by measuring recoveries in both real-time and accelerated
studies.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5