
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k053097
B. Purpose of Submission:
For addition of Cefoxitin Screen to the VITEK®2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
System to predict mecA -mediated resistance in Staphylococcus spp
C. Analyte
Cefoxitin will be included in the VITEK®2 Cefoxitin Screen at a concentration of
6 μg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative growth based detection algorithm using predetermined growth thresholds
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITEK®2 Gram Positive Cefoxitin Screen
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1645 Short-Term Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test System
2. Classification:
II
3. Product Code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cefoxitin at a concentration of 6 µg/mL on the VITEK®2 Gram Positive
susceptibility Card is intended for use with the VITEK 2 System in clinical
laboratories as an in vitro test to determine the susceptibility of
Staphylococcus spp. to antimicrobial agents when used as instructed in the
Online Product Information.
The VITEK® 2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) is intended to be used
with the VITEK® 2 and VITEK® 2 Compact Systems for the automated

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 5
quantitative or qualitative susceptibility testing of isolated colonies for the
most clinically significant aerobic gram-negative bacilli, Staphylococcus spp.,
Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and S. pneumoniae.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the VITEK® 2 Gram Positive Cefoxitin
Screen to predict mecA -mediated resistance in staphylococci.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
Perform an alternative method of testing prior to reporting of results when a
Positive (+) result is obtained with the Cefoxitin Screen and Staphylococcus
saprophyticus
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The VITEK® 2 AST card containing the test is inoculated with a standardized organism
suspension. The card is incubated within the instrument and optically monitored
throughout the incubation cycle. Results are automatically calculated once a
predetermined growth threshold is reached and a report is generated that contains the
final result.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Vitek® 2 Gram Positive AST for High-Level Streptomycin
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510/S113
3. Comparison with predicate
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Instrument VITEK®2 System Same
Test Card VITEK®2 card, including Same
the base broth
Test organism Colonies of Gram-Positive Same
cocci
Provide qualitative, Same
positive/negative test results

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Instrument			VITEK®2 System			Same		
Test Card			VITEK®2 card, including
the base broth			Same		
Test organism			Colonies of Gram-Positive
cocci			Same		
			Provide qualitative,
positive/negative test results			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 5
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Predict mecA -mediated Screen to determine if the
resistance in staphylococci enterococcal isolate will be
affected synergistically by a
combination of a penicillin
or glycopeptide with an
aminoglycoside
Antibiotic Contains different Contains different
antibiotic, Cefoxitin, and antibiotic, Streptomycin,
utilize different analysis and utilize different analysis
algorithms algorithms
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; NCCLS M7 (M100-S15) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard”.
L. Test Principle:
The VITEK® 2 Cefoxitin Screen test is based on the CLSI Disk Diffusion Test for
prediction of mecA-mediated resistance in Staphylococci. Each VITEK® 2 AST Card
contains 64 wells. A control well containing only microbiological culture media is
resident on all cards. The remaining wells contain premeasured portions of a specific
antibiotic combined with culture media. The bacterial isolate to be tested is diluted to a
standardized concentration with 0.45% saline before being used to rehydrate the
antimicrobial medium within the card. The VITEK® 2 automatically fills, seals and
places the card into the incubator/reader. The VITEK® 2 Compact has a manual filling
and sealing operation. Both VITEK® 2 systems monitor the growth of each well in the
card over a defined period of time (up to 18 hours). At the completion of the incubation
cycle, a report is generated. For the VITEK®2 Cefoxitin Screen, the report will list
either a positive or negative result. The VITEK®2 Cefoxitin Screen and oxacillin work
in combination to determine the final oxacillin interpretation based on the CLSI
recommendations.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Ten strains of staphylococci were tested at three sites with >95%
reproducibility. This testing was performed using both the manual
dilution of the inoculum and also the automatic dilution method.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
The following table demonstrates the frequency of the quality
control testing for both the reference method and the Vitek® 2.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Predict mecA -mediated
resistance in staphylococci			Screen to determine if the
enterococcal isolate will be
affected synergistically by a
combination of a penicillin
or glycopeptide with an
aminoglycoside		
Antibiotic			Contains different
antibiotic, Cefoxitin, and
utilize different analysis
algorithms			Contains different
antibiotic, Streptomycin,
and utilize different analysis
algorithms		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5
ORGANISM Test VITEK®2 Reference VITEK®2 Reference
AUTO-DIL AUTO-DIL MAN-DIL MAN-DIL
Results
S. aureus Negative 61 61 61 61
ATCC 29213 Positive
Expected Result: Neg
S. aureus Negative
ATCC BAA-1026 Positive 61 61 61 61
Expected Result: Pos
Quality Control was performed during the studies using both the
auto-dilution and the manual method of diluting the organisms.
Inoculum density control was monitored using the DensiChek
instrument. This was standardized weekly with all results recorded
and in the expected range. Verification was performed during
internal testing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A clinical study was conducted at three sites using the VITEK®2 Cefoxitin
test and the CLSI Cefoxitin Disk Diffusion test method prepared as
recommended in CLSI M7 approved standard. Inoculum was prepared with
direct colony suspension. Two methods of inoculation (manual and
automated) were evaluated. Oxacillin is forced susceptible for coag-
negative staphylococci other than S. lugdunensis and S. epidermidis when
the oxacillin MIC result is 0.5 – 2 µg/mL and the cefoxitin screen result is
negative. This rule was used in the final analysis of the results. Clinical
testing was performed using the automated method of inoculation and the
challenge set was tested using both the manual and the automated method.
Greater than 95% of the isolates grew in the VITEK®2 card in less than 16
hours.
The VITEK®2 system includes a limitation for not reporting results for S.
saprophyticus when the oxacillin MIC and cefoxitin screen test together
produce a resistant determination. The VITEK®2 over calls this group of
organisms and a recommendation to use an alternate method is included in
the labeling. With the removal of all S. saprophyticus that fall into that
category the performance based on all other Staphylococcus is provided in

[Table 1 on page 4]
ORGANISM	Test
Results	VITEK®2
AUTO-DIL	Reference
AUTO-DIL	VITEK®2
MAN-DIL	Reference
MAN-DIL
S. aureus
ATCC 29213
Expected Result: Neg	Negative	61	61	61	61
	Positive				
					
					
S. aureus
ATCC BAA-1026
Expected Result: Pos	Negative				
	Positive	61	61	61	61
					

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 5
the following table when the testing was performed using the automated
testing format in conjunction with the oxacillin result from the card.
Total Number Number CA %CA maj vmj
Neg (S) Pos (R)
Clinical 388 168 220 381 98.2 6 1
Challenge 74 49 25 74 100 0 0
Combined 462 217 245 455 98.5 6 1
CA-Category Agreement maj-major discrepancies
vmj-very major discrepancies
CA is when the interpretation of the reference method agrees exactly with
the interpretation of the VITEK®2 results.
The challenge set of organisms was also tested at one site using the manual
method of inoculation demonstrating that there was no difference between
the two inoculation methods.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values:
Negative
Positive
Quality Control is the same as recommended in the CLSI standard and will be
included in the package insert.
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Total	Number
Neg (S)	Number
Pos (R)	CA	%CA	maj	vmj
Clinical	388	168	220	381	98.2	6	1
Challenge	74	49	25	74	100	0	0
Combined	462	217	245	455	98.5	6	1