
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K053111
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the STA® - Cephascreen® kit.
C. Measurand:
Activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)
D. Type of Test:
Clotting assay
E. Applicant:
Diagnostica Stago, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
STA® - Cephascreen® kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7925
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GFO
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The STA® - Cephascreen® kits provide reagents for the determination of the
activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) in citrated plasma on the STA® line
of analyzers suitable to these reagents.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The STA® - Cephascreen® kits provide reagents for the determination of the
activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) in citrated plasma on the STA® line
of analyzers suitable to these reagents.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable
4. Special instrument requirements:
STA® line of analyzers suitable to these reagents
I. Device Description:
The STA® - Cephascreen® kits provide reagents for the determination of the activated
partial thromboplastin time (APTT) by the STA® line of analyzers. The reagent is
packaged in two ways 4-ml vials (REF 00308) and 10-ml vials (REF 00310). The
reagent contains cephalin (platelet substitute) prepared from rabbit cerebral tissues
and a polyphenolic activator in a buffered medium.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
STA® - C.K. Prest® kit
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K792048
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Reagent for the Same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Reagent for the			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
determination of the
APTT
Reagent Composition: Cephalin Same
Platelet Substitute
Sample Type Citrated human plasma Same
Stability In vials at 2-8 C until Same
expiration
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reagent Composition: Polyphenolic activator Kaolin
Platelet Activator
Stability 7 or 10 days on analyzer 24 or 48 hours on
analyzer
Shelf life 15 months 24 months
Reagent format Liquid Freeze-dried
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The APTT involves recalcification of plasma in the presence of a standardized
amount of cephalin (platelet substitute) and a factor XII activator (polyphenolic
component).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra-assay precision was assessed by testing 21 lyophilized normal and
abnormal control plasmas with three different lots of STA® - Cephascreen® on
the STA® analyzer. The CVs obtained for both samples using all three lots
were ≤ 1%.
Inter-assay precision was assessed by testing lyophilized normal and abnormal
control plasmas over 10 different test runs using STA® - Cephascreen® on the
STA® analyzer. The CVs obtained for both were ≤ 1.5%.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			determination of the
APTT					
Reagent Composition:
Platelet Substitute			Cephalin			Same		
Sample Type			Citrated human plasma			Same		
Stability			In vials at 2-8 C until
expiration			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reagent Composition:
Platelet Activator			Polyphenolic activator			Kaolin		
Stability			7 or 10 days on analyzer			24 or 48 hours on
analyzer		
Shelf life			15 months			24 months		
Reagent format			Liquid			Freeze-dried		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Unopened vials remain stable for 15 months after the date of manufacture
when stored at 2-8 °C as verified by real time stability studies utilizing three
samples (normal and abnormal) and three different lots of Cephascreen®
reagent. No clinically significant differences in clotting times were obtained
between newly manufactured reagent and reagent stored for 9, 12, and 15
months post-manufacture.
Opened vials of STA® - Cephascreen® (with STA® - Reducer and perforated
cap) is stable for 7 days (STA® - Cephascreen® 4) or 10 days (STA® -
Cephascreen® 10) on board STA® Analyzers. Normal and abnormal
lyophilized plasmas were tested with three vials from three different lots of
STA® - Cephascreen® 4 and STA® - Cephascreen® 10 when the reagent was
immediately opened and then following 7 and 10 days respectively on board
the STA analyzer.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference
Thirty four patient plasmas containing varying levels of FVIII as determined
by STA® –Deficient VIII were tested with STA® - Cephascreen® on the
STA®-R analyzer. For all samples tested with low FVIII levels, the APTT
result was above the upper limit (34.9 seconds) of the expected reference
range.
Twenty six patient plasmas containing varying levels of FIX as determined
with STA® –Deficient IX were tested with STA® - Cephascreen® on the
STA®-R analyzer. Twenty four of the 26 samples tested with low FVIII levels
had an APTT result above the upper limit (34.9 seconds) of the expected
reference range.
To assess the responsiveness of STA® - Cephascreen® to unfractionated
heparin (UFH), 60 patient plasmas containing UFH were tested on the STA®
analyzer. Heparin levels were determined using STA® – Rotachrom Heparin.
Study results indicated that the majority of samples with heparin levels in the
therapeutic range (0.3-0.7 IU/ml) had prolonged APTT values. Of the patients
4

--- Page 5 ---
tested, only one sample with therapeutic levels of heparin had a normal APTT.
To assess the effect of Low Molecular Weight Heparins (LMWH) on STA® -
Cephascreen®, 60 patient plasmas containing varying levels of LMWH, as
determined by STA® – Rotachrom Heparin, were evaluated on the STA®
analyzer. The effect on the APTT was minimal.
To assess the sensitivity of STA® - Cephascreen® 10 LA positive plasmas (as
determined by Rosner Index) of varying strength were tested on the STA®-R
analyzer. LA positivity was determined by the Platelin LS reagent. Four of
the 10 samples were within normal range. The STA® - Cephascreen® was
developed to demonstrate relative insensitivity to LA.
f. Assay cut-off:
User defined
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The STA® - Cephascreen® kits were compared with the predicate device
STA® - C.K. Prest® (K792048). The two kits were run in parallel as described
in their respective package inserts to determine the APTT in 125 plasmas
comprised of the following: normal plasma, plasma from patients receiving
UFH and LMWH, plasma from patient receiving oral anticoagulant therapy,
LA positive plasma, and plasma from patients with factor VIII and IX
deficiency. Studies resulted in a correlation coefficient (r) of 0.943 and
regression equation of y = 0.78 x + 8.2.
(STA® - Cephascreen®) (STA® - Cephascreen®)
Additional correlation studies were performed at three locations in France
between the predicate device and the proposed device on the STA or the STA-
R instruments. At each site 130-135 plasmas were collected from presumed
normal individuals as well as individuals with a variety of pathologies
including patients with known Factor VIII or IX deficiencies, Lupus
Anticoagulants or patients receiving UFH, LMWH, or vitamin K antagonists.
A total of 395 samples tested yielded the following correlation data: Y =
0.81x + 6.42, r = 0.94.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Not assessed
b. Clinical specificity:
Not assessed
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
User defined
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The STA® - Cephascreen® reference range was determined by testing citrated
plasmas obtained from 360 presumed healthy individuals (obtained from hospitals
in France). Testing was performed on multiple days using three STA® analyzers
and one STA-R® analyzer. The analyzers yielded a reference range of 23.7 – 34.9
seconds (± 2SD).
Each laboratory should establish its own normal ranges and acceptable controls
values for their particular local patient population. In general, values are
considered normal if they fall within the range of mean ± 2 standard deviations.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6

--- Page 7 ---
7