
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k053236
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Runbio Biotech Co., Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
David Pregnancy Test (Strip and Midstream)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1155
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
LCX
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
David Pregnancy Test is a self-testing immunoassay designed for the qualitative
determination of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the urine to aid in early
detection of pregnancy. It is for over-the-counter use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
David Pregnancy Test is a self-testing immunoassay designed for the qualitative
determination of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the urine to aid in early
detection of pregnancy. It is for over-the-counter use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
This device is for over-the-counter use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None required
I. Device Description:
The product is supplied in two formats (strip and midstream), and is composed of the
following: α-hCG monoclonal antibody and anti-mouse IgG labeled nitrocellulose
membrane, and colloidal gold labeled anti β-hCG monoclonal antibody.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Acon Midstream Pregnancy Test and Acon Quick-Test Strip
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k983090 and k033041
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicates
Intended Use / Qualitative detection of Same
Indications for Use hCG in urine for early
detection of pregnancy;
for OTC use
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicates	
Intended Use /
Indications for Use			Qualitative detection of
hCG in urine for early
detection of pregnancy;
for OTC use			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicates
Test Principle Chromatographic Same
immunoassay
Sensitivity 25 mIU/mL Same
Standardization W.H.O. 3rd I.S. Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate 2
Label Colloidal gold Streptavidin-biotin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The test has been standardized to the W.H.O. Third International Standard.
L. Test Principle:
The test is a two-site, sandwich immunoassay.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
hCG standard solution was added to normal male urine and prepared to
different concentrations: 0 mIU/mL, 12.5 mIU/mL (50% below cutoff level),
25 mIU/mL (cutoff level), 37.5 mIU/mL (50% above cutoff level), and 50
mIU/mL (100% above cutoff level). Each concentration level was tested four
times daily, in duplicate, for five consecutive days. A total of 40 samples at
each concentration were tested. All samples at 12.5 mIU/mL hCG and below
were negative, and all samples at 25 mIU/mL hCG and above were positive.
hCG standard solution was added to normal male urine and prepared to
different concentrations: 0 mIU/mL, 12.5 mIU/mL (50% below cutoff level),
25 mIU/mL (cutoff level), 37.5 mIU/mL (50% above cutoff level), and 50
mIU/mL (100% above cutoff level). Each specimen at each concentration
level was tested four times daily, in duplicate, on three different lots of strips.
A total of 120 samples were tested. All samples at 12.5 mIU/mL hCG and
below were negative, and all samples at 25 mIU/mL hCG and above were
positive. The results showed 100% agreement across the three lots.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicates	
Test Principle
Sensitivity
Standardization			Chromatographic
immunoassay
25 mIU/mL
W.H.O. 3rd I.S.			Same
Same
Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate 2	
Label			Colloidal gold			Streptavidin-biotin		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The test has been standardized to the W.H.O. Third International Standard.
d. Detection limit:
The sensitivity claim of the test is 25 mIU/mL.
hCG standard solution was added to normal male urine and prepared to
different concentrations: 0 mIU/mL, 10 mIU/mL, 25 mIU/mL, 50 mIU/mL,
and 100 mIU/mL. Each concentration level was run on five test strip lots. All
samples at 25 mIU/mL hCG and above were positive, and all samples at 10
mIU/mL hCG and below were negative.
e. Analytical specificity:
A male urine specimen was spiked with different concentrations of follicle
stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and thyroid stimulating
hormone (TSH) and tested on the David Pregnancy Test. Then the samples
were spiked with hCG to 25 mIU/mL and tested on the David Pregnancy Test.
No interference was observed with FSH up to 1000 mIU/mL, LH up to 300
mIU/mL, and TSH up to 1000 μIU/mL. All negative samples gave negative
results, and all 25 mIU/mL samples gave positive results.
The David Pregnancy Test was also tested for potential interference from
prescription/OTC drugs, various urinary analytes, and pH. The substances
were spiked into hCG negative and hCG positive specimens. No interference
was observed with the various substances at the concentrations tested. All
samples yielded the expected results.
To evaluate the effect of pH, acid or base was added to urine samples
containing hCG at concentrations of 0, 25, 50, 100, 200, and 5000 mIU/mL.
All samples were adjusted to different pH values ranging from 3.0 to 13.0 and
tested using the David Pregnancy Test. For pH values of 3.5 to 12.0, all 0
mIU/mL samples were negative and all samples ≥ 25 mIU/mL were positive.
The effect of pH using clinical samples was also evaluated. Urine samples
from ten healthy, non-pregnant women and ten pregnant women were
adjusted to pH ranges of 2.0 to 13 and tested. Ten negative and positive
clinical samples, serving as controls, were unadjusted and also tested. All
unadjusted clinical samples (both positive and negative) produced the
expected results. All negative and positive samples in the pH range of 3.5 to
4

--- Page 5 ---
12 yielded the expected results.
f. Assay cut-off:
See Detection limit above.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The David Pregnancy Test was compared to a commercially available assay
using random urine specimens, collected at various times throughout the day.
A total of 99 patient samples were collected, and results were available for 98
samples. The results showed 100% agreement with the commercially
available assay and included 44 positives and 54 negatives.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
The David Pregnancy Test was analyzed with randomly selected patients’
urine samples from emergency and out-patient departments. The study was
conducted at two hospitals and included over 2000 samples.
In the first study which used 104 samples from women aged 21 to 40 years, 79
were positive and 25 were negative on the David Pregnancy Test. There were
no false positive or false negative results. The test was in 100% agreement
with the clinical diagnosis.
In the second study, 1936 samples were collected. Thirteen (13) samples were
discarded because the women had been taking fertility drugs containing hCG.
Of the remaining 1923 tested on the David Pregnancy Test, 1411 were
negative and 512 were positive, with three being weak positives. The results
agreed with the clinical diagnosis with the exception of one false negative and
5

--- Page 6 ---
one false positive, demonstrating greater than 99% accuracy.
A study was conducted to evaluate laypersons’ ability to understand the
instructions and to perform the test correctly. Ninety (90) volunteers, women
20-40 years old without professional knowledge of rapid pregnancy tests and
of various educational backgrounds, participated in the study. The women
were randomly divided into groups and asked to perform one of the test
formats according to the package insert instructions, using coded standard
solutions with hCG concentrations of 10, 25, 50, and 100 mIU/mL. After
testing, each woman was asked to complete a questionnaire. The test results
were as follows: 89/90 10 mIU/mL results were negative, 89/90 25 mIU/mL
results were positive, and all of the 50 mIU/mL and 100 mIU/mL results were
positive. All of the participants felt the test procedure and reading the results
were easy to understand. Ninety-nine percent (99%) of the women said the
test was easy to perform following the instructions for use, and 98% said they
were able to read the result without difficulty.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values have been established in the literature.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6