
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K053362
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the Streck Cell-Chex Auto Control
C. Measurand:
Red Blood Cells
White Blood Cells
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Material
E. Applicant:
Streck
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Cell-Chex Auto
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625
2. Classification:
Class II
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
JPK
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Streck Cell-Chex Auto control is an assayed whole blood control for
evaluating the accuracy and precision of hematology instruments that measure
blood cell counts in patient body fluid samples.
2. Indication(s) for use:
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
The Streck Cell-Chex Auto is an assayed, tri-level control formulated with stabilized
suspension of human red blood cells and simulated white blood cells in a solution
containing biological salts and anti-microbial preservatives. The control is packaged
in plastic vials containing 4 ml. Level 1 is a very low concentration, Level 2 a low
concentration, and Level 3 a high concentration. Vials are packaged in six or twelve
vials.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Streck iQ® Body Fluids Control
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K051706
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Composition Assayed control mixture same
of red and white blood
cells
Stability 30 days open vial same
stability
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Stability 75 days closed vial 159 days closed vial
stability stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle:
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility studies were performed on 2 lots of each level of Streck Cell-
Chex Auto Control. 10 consecutive analysis was performed on a single vial of
each level. Levels 1, 2, and 3 were tested on 4 different instruments. Levels 2
and 3 were tested on 5 different instruments. Mean, SD and %CV was
calculated and found to be acceptable.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Composition			Assayed control mixture
of red and white blood
cells			same		
Stability			30 days open vial
stability			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Stability			75 days closed vial
stability			159 days closed vial
stability		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Testing was set up to verify the 30 day open vial dating and 75 day expiration
dating. For open vial stability testing, 1 vial of each level, from 2 lots was
analyzed on 5 instruments (4 for Level 1), at least twice a week. On days that
analysis did not occur, the vials were warmed to room temperature, inverted to
mix, and then returned to refrigerated storage. Both lots performed as
expected with parameter recovery within the established assay ranges.
The 75 day expiration dating testing was set up similarly, with analysis
performed on each vial at least to times per week from the ship date to the
expiration date. Between analysis, each vial was returned to refrigerated
storage. No significant trends occurred and there was consistent recovery of
values within the indicated assay range.
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
4

--- Page 5 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Product samples were provided to 5 off-site laboratories. Results
demonstrated all three levels performed within the assay ranges.
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision, based on a Tier 1 review.
5