
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k053533
B. Purpose for Submission:
Changes to labeling and modified Indications for Use
C. Measurand:
Intact parathyroid hormone
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, Chemiluminescent, Immunometric assay
E. Applicant:
Diagnostic Products Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
IMMULITE/IMMULITE 1000 Turbo Intact PTH Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1545 – Parathyroid hormone test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
CEW
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
For in vitro diagnostic use with the IMMULITE and IMMULITE 1000
Analyzers—for the quantitative measurement of intact parathyroid hormone
parathyrin, PTH) test system in EDTA plasma or serum. It is intended as an aid
in the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia and can be used
intraoperatively.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
This device is for prescription use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
IMMULITE and IMMULITE 1000 analyzers
I. Device Description:
The Turbo Intact PTH Kit is supplied with the following:
• 50 Turbo Intact PTH Units. Each unit contains one bead coated with
affinity purified goat polyclonal anti-PTH (44-84) antibody
• 1 Turbo Intact Reagent Wedge. 7.5 mL alkaline phosphatase (bovine calf
intestine) conjugated to affinity purified goat polyclonal anti-PTH (1-34)
antibody in buffer with preservative.
• 2 vials Intact PTH Adjustors (Low and High) of lyophilized synthetic
human Intact PTH in a buffered matrix
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
IMMULITE Turbo Intact PTH Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k992105

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Predicate Device
Assay Principle Solid phase, Same
chemiluminescent
immunometric assay
Antibodies Goat polyclonal anti-PTH Same
(44-84) as the capture
antibody and goat
polyclonal anti-PTH (1-34)
conjugated to alkaline
phosphatase as the detection
antibody
Analytical Sensitivity 4.0 pg/mL Same
Reference: Range 8-74 pg/mL Same
Differences
Item Predicate Device
Indications for Use For in vitro diagnostic use For in vitro diagnostic use
with the IMMULITE and with the IMMULITE and
IMMULITE 1000 IMMULITE 1000
Analyzers—for Analyzers—for
the quantitative the quantitative
measurement of intact measurement of intact
parathyroid hormone parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) test (parathyrin, PTH) test
system in EDTA plasma or system in EDTA plasma or
serum. It is intended as an serum. It is intended as an
aid in the differential aid in the differential
diagnosis of hypercalcemia diagnosis of hypercalcemia
and hypocalcemia. and hypocalcemia and can
be used intraoperatively.
It is not intended for the
diagnosis or monitoring of
hypercalcemia and
It is not intended for the
hypocalcemia. EDTA
Limitations diagnosis of hypercalcemia
sample is the preferred
and hypocalcemia.
sample type for rapid
turnaround time particularly
in the intraoperative setting

[Table 1 on page 3]
			Similarities					
	Item			Predicate			Device	
Assay Principle			Solid phase,
chemiluminescent
immunometric assay			Same		
Antibodies			Goat polyclonal anti-PTH
(44-84) as the capture
antibody and goat
polyclonal anti-PTH (1-34)
conjugated to alkaline
phosphatase as the detection
antibody			Same		
Analytical Sensitivity			4.0 pg/mL			Same		
Reference: Range			8-74 pg/mL			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
			Differences					
	Item			Predicate			Device	
Indications for Use			For in vitro diagnostic use
with the IMMULITE and
IMMULITE 1000
Analyzers—for
the quantitative
measurement of intact
parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) test
system in EDTA plasma or
serum. It is intended as an
aid in the differential
diagnosis of hypercalcemia
and hypocalcemia.			For in vitro diagnostic use
with the IMMULITE and
IMMULITE 1000
Analyzers—for
the quantitative
measurement of intact
parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) test
system in EDTA plasma or
serum. It is intended as an
aid in the differential
diagnosis of hypercalcemia
and hypocalcemia and can
be used intraoperatively.		
Limitations			It is not intended for the
diagnosis of hypercalcemia
and hypocalcemia.			It is not intended for the
diagnosis or monitoring of
hypercalcemia and
hypocalcemia. EDTA
sample is the preferred
sample type for rapid
turnaround time particularly
in the intraoperative setting		

--- Page 4 ---
PTH assays are used
intraoperatively to verify a
decline in PTH production
PTH assays are used after resection. When used
intraoperatively to verify a intraoperatively, it has been
decline in PTH production recommended that intact
after resection. When used PTH concentrations be
Instructions
intraoperatively, it has been measured at baseline before
recommended that two or exploration and then at 5-10
more samples be collected minutes post tumor excision
at least 5-10 minutes apart. with a 50% decrease in
values observed if all
hypersecreting tissue has
been removed.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
IMMULITE/IMMULITE 1000 Turbo Intact PTH is a solid phase chemiluminescent
immunometric assay utilizing a goat polyclonal anti-PTH (44-84) antibody as the
capture antibody and a goat polyclonal anti-PTH (1-34) antibody conjugated to
alkaline phosphatase as the detection antibody.
IMMULITE/IMMULITE 1000 Turbo mode processes samples at an accelerated
rate, with time to first result being 15 minutes and subsequent samples are generated
every 45 seconds.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Performance Characteristics were established in k99105.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Instructions	PTH assays are used
intraoperatively to verify a
decline in PTH production
after resection. When used
intraoperatively, it has been
recommended that two or
more samples be collected
at least 5-10 minutes apart.	PTH assays are used
intraoperatively to verify a
decline in PTH production
after resection. When used
intraoperatively, it has been
recommended that intact
PTH concentrations be
measured at baseline before
exploration and then at 5-10
minutes post tumor excision
with a 50% decrease in
values observed if all
hypersecreting tissue has
been removed.

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
e. Analytical specificity:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
f. Assay cut-off:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
b. Matrix comparison:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Clinical studies were performed at the Mayo Clinic1, Rochester, MN (Kao, PC
et al.) and Washington University School of Medicine/Barnes Jewish Hospital2,
St. Louis, MO (Johnson, LR, et. al) to evaluate the Immulite/Immulite 1000
Turbo Intact PTH assay results on patients undergoing parathyroidectomy.
These assay results were compared to clinical data and reported in the
following peer reviewed journals:
1. Kao PC, van Heerden JA, Farley DR, et al. Intraoperative monitoring of
parathyroid hormone with a rapid automated assay that is commercially
available. Annal of Clin & Lab Science 2002; 32(3):244-251.

--- Page 6 ---
2. Johnson LR, Doherty G, Lairmore T, et al. Evaluation of the performance
and clinical impact of a rapid intraoperative parathyroid hormone assay in
conjunction with preoperative imaging and concise parathyroidectomy.
Clin Chem 2001; 47(5):919-925.
Study #1:
The Mayo Clinic Study was conducted between July 1999 and October 2001
using the currently marketed Immulite/Immulite 1000 Turbo Intact PTH assay.
EDTA blood specimens were collected from forty seven patients undergoing
parathyroidectomy at the following time intervals: baseline (prior to removing
the parathyroid gland) and 5, 10, and 20 minutes after parathyroid resection.
Turbo Intact PTH results on ninety-four specimens were immediately analyzed.
These results were compared to the in-house rapid assay and generated the
following correlation: y = 1.047x + 0.186; r = 0.968.
45 of 47patients (96%) had their plasma PTH levels decrease to <25 % of the
baseline levels. In 41 of 47 patients (87%), the PTH value decreased to <5pmol/L
(provisional reference range) within 20 minutes after tumor excision.
The assay met the generally accepted criterion of a > 50% decrease from baseline
(before incision) with complete tumor removal.
Study #2:
The Washington University Barnes Jewish Hospital Study evaluated the
IMMULITE and IMMULITE 1000 Turbo iPTH assay intraoperatively in 49
patients and compared clinical outcomes to a “control” group of 55 patients that
underwent parathyroidectomies without intraoperative PTH determinations. This
study also employed the generally accepted guideline that a ≥50% decrease in the
iPTH value from baseline suggests complete tumor removal. Samples were drawn
in the operating room before incision and during the period 10-12 minutes
after excision of suspected diseased parathyroid gland tissue. Of the 49 patients
in the study group, 46 had a > 50% decrease in iPTH values within the first three
post-resection samples. When the control and study groups with similar sex, age,
and diagnoses were compared, 44/49 (90%) of the patients in the study group and
49/55 (89%) of the control patients achieved normocalcemia postoperatively. The
surgery guided by intraoperative IMMULITE/IMMULITE Turbo Intact PTH
measurements had identical physiologic outcomes. Frozen section use in the
experimental group was statistically significantly less (p<0.0001) than in the
control group.
The assay met the generally accepted criterion of a > 50% decrease from baseline
(before incision) with complete tumor removal.
4. Clinical cut-off:

--- Page 7 ---
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Performance Characteristics were established in k992105.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.