
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k053426
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable (delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. ELECSYS®
Anti-Thyroglobulin (Anti-Tg) Antibody Test System (k020672)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that
the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for
1. Correct a typographical error of the source of the Anti-Tg antibodies in Cal 2 from
human to sheep.
2. Change calibrator form from liquid to lyophilized.
3. Change the stability claims for calibrators to 6 weeks (2-8 oC) upon reconstitution.
4. Change the stability claims for all other reagents and controls to 6 weeks (2-8 oC) to
harmonize to that of the calibrators.
5. Change the filling volume of the calibrators from 1.3 ml to 1.5 ml.
6. Change concentration of monoclonal anti-Tg antibodies (human) labeled with
ruthenium complex from 0.52 mg/L to 0.62 mg/L.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics,
traceability/standardization, test principle, measuring range, and limitations:
Item K020672 (Predicate) Modified Device
Calibrators Liquid Lyophilized
Stability (Opened)
Reagents (M, R1, R2) up to twelve weeks, 2-8 oC up to six weeks, 2-8 oC.
PC-A-Tg1, PC-A-Tg2 up to eight weeks, 2-8 oC six weeks, 2-8 oC
Reagent 2 (R2) 0.520 mg/L 0.620 mg/L
Cal2 source Typographical error listed as Sheep
human
Package Insert
Precautions and warnings Avoid the formation of foam with all reagents
and sample types (specimens, calibrators, and
controls).
Specimen collection and The sample types listed were tested with a
preparation selection of sample collection tubes that were
commercially available at the time of testing i.e.
not all available tubes of all manufacturers
were tested. Sample collection systems from
various manufacturers may contain differing
materials which could affect the test results in

[Table 1 on page 1]
Item	K020672 (Predicate)	Modified Device
Calibrators	Liquid	Lyophilized
Stability (Opened)
Reagents (M, R1, R2)
PC-A-Tg1, PC-A-Tg2	up to twelve weeks, 2-8 oC
up to eight weeks, 2-8 oC	up to six weeks, 2-8 oC.
six weeks, 2-8 oC
Reagent 2 (R2)	0.520 mg/L	0.620 mg/L
Cal2 source	Typographical error listed as
human	Sheep
Package Insert		
Precautions and warnings		Avoid the formation of foam with all reagents
and sample types (specimens, calibrators, and
controls).
Specimen collection and
preparation		The sample types listed were tested with a
selection of sample collection tubes that were
commercially available at the time of testing i.e.
not all available tubes of all manufacturers
were tested. Sample collection systems from
various manufacturers may contain differing
materials which could affect the test results in

--- Page 2 ---
2
Item K020672 (Predicate) Modified Device
some cases. When processing samples in
primary tubes (sample collection systems),
follow the instructions of the tube
manufacturer.
Calibration verification Not necessary. The Deleted
analyzer's software
automatically checks the
validity of the curve and
draws attention to any
deviations.
Expected Values Reference to brochure "Reference Intervals for
Children and Adults" added
References #5 added
#9 (data on file at Roche) deleted
"Limited License" & "Limited Added
Warranty"
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on
the device and its components, and the results of the analysis. (See "Risk Analysis
Results," in Section IV, pg. 32-33.)
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied. (See
"Summary of Risk Analysis," in Section IV, pg. 31.)
c) A declaration of conformity (See Section IV, pg. 34) with design controls. The declaration of
conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis,
all verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s)
and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR
820.30 and the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for Use
Enclosure. (See Section II, pg. 22-23 & Section III, pg. 25)
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter
has provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this
basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or
their preamendment) device.

[Table 1 on page 2]
Item	K020672 (Predicate)	Modified Device
		some cases. When processing samples in
primary tubes (sample collection systems),
follow the instructions of the tube
manufacturer.
Calibration verification	Not necessary. The
analyzer's software
automatically checks the
validity of the curve and
draws attention to any
deviations.	Deleted
Expected Values		Reference to brochure "Reference Intervals for
Children and Adults" added
References		#5 added
#9 (data on file at Roche) deleted
"Limited License" & "Limited
Warranty"		Added