
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K053446
B. Purpose for Submission:
The Gen-Probe APTIMA® Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis (ACT) is a
nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) intended for the qualitative detection
of ribosomal RNA from Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) in endocervical, male
urethral and vaginal swab specimens and in female and male urine specimens.
The assay originally received FDA clearance in 2004 (K043072). The
current application is for the additional indication of testing specimens
collected and processed with the Cytyc ThinPrep 2000 System and the
SurePath PrepStain System. New SurePath and PreservCyt labeling for the
approved ancillary liquid pap Specimen Transfer Kit is included in the current
submission.
C. Measurand:
Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) ribosomal RNA

--- Page 2 ---
D. Type of Test:
NAAT
E. Applicant:
GEN-PROBE, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
GEN-PROBE® APTIMA® Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
MKZ Class I 21 CFR 866.3210 Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The APTIMA Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis is a target amplification
nucleic acid probe test that utilizes target capture for the in vitro
qualitative detection of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) from Chlamydia
trachomatis (CT) in clinician-collected endocervical, vaginal and male
urethral swab specimens, patient-collected vaginal swab specimens,
and female and male urine specimens. The assay is also intended for
use with the testing of gynecological specimens collected in the
PreservCyt® Solution and processed with the Cytyc ThinPrep® 2000
System. The assay may be used to test specimens from symptomatic
and asymptomatic individuals to aid in the diagnosis of chlamydial
urogenital disease.
*Patient-collected vaginal swab specimens are an option for screening
women when a pelvic exam is not otherwise indicated. The vaginal swab
specimen collection kit is not for home use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use above.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
MKZ			Class I			21 CFR 866.3210			Microbiology (83)		

--- Page 3 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
This device is for prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Gen-Probe DTS® System
I. Device Description:
The GEN-PROBE® APTIMA® Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis is a nucleic acid
amplification test (NAAT). See Test Principle below for more details.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Addition of a PreservCyt (PC) specimen indication to the previously cleared device.
Collection device and media are different, as are specimen handling and storage
conditions.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
The GEN-PROBE APTIMA Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis combines the
technologies of target capture, Transcription-Mediated Amplification (TMA), and
Hybridization Protection Assay (HPA). During target capture, rRNA molecules
are isolated from specimens by capture oligomers on magnetic microparticles.
After target capture, the specimens are ready for TMA. The GEN-PROBE
APTIMA Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis reaction replicates a specific region
of the 16S rRNA from C. trachomatis via DNA intermediates. Detection of the
rRNA amplicons is achieved using single-stranded chemiluminescent DNA
probes, which are labeled with different acridinium ester molecules. The labeled
DNA probes combine with amplicon to form stable RNA:DNA hybrids and light
emitted from the labeled RNA:DNA hybrids is reported as Relative Light Units
(RLU). Assay results are determined by a cut-off based on the total RLU.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
3

--- Page 4 ---
PreservCyt specimen within-laboratory precision with the ACT assay was
determined by spiking PreservCyt vials with 20 CT IFU per vial (0.1 IFU per
reaction) and 100 CT IFU per vial (0.5 IFU per reaction). Vials containing
1,000 CT IFU per vial (5 IFU per reaction) and unspiked PreservCyt vials
were tested as positive and negative controls. Ten vials spiked at each IFU
level and ten unspiked vials were divided between two operators. The
operators vortexed the vials and then transferred 14 aliquots (1.0 mL each) per
vial into 14 APTIMA Transfer Tubes as per the APTIMA Specimen Transfer
Kit package insert. The operators were blinded to the samples' titers. Each of
the resulting Pap-STM samples was tested once in the ACT assay. A total of
five runs were performed over a five day period for 140 results at each IFU
level. The results are summarized below:
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not Applicable
d. Detection limit:
A study was performed that showed the ACT Assay detected CT cells at the analytical
sensitivity claim (I IFU/assay) for 3 replicates of each of 15 CT serovars tested in PC
media. See results below:
4

--- Page 5 ---
5

--- Page 6 ---
6

--- Page 7 ---
7

--- Page 8 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
The Chlamydia species were used to evaluate the analytical specificity of the
ACT Assay. A total of 3 culture isolates were tested in the liquid Pap media.
None of the 3 culture isolates produced a positive result in the ACT Assay.
See results below:
8

--- Page 9 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
A prospective multi-center clinical study was conducted to evaluate the use of
the PreservCyt Solution (a component of the ThinPrep 2000 System) as an
alternative medium for gynecological specimens for the detection of CT by
the APTIMA CT Assay. One thousand six hundred forty-seven (1,647)
symptomatic and asymptomatic female subjects attending OB/GYN, family
planning, public health, women's, and STD clinics were evaluated in the
clinical study. Of the 1,647 evaluable subjects, 1,288 were asymptomatic
subjects and 359 were symptomatic subjects. Subjects were enrolled from
sites with CT prevalence that ranged from 2.8% to 14.0%.
Two specimens were collected from each eligible subject: one PreservCyt
Solution liquid Pap specimen and one endocervical swab specimen.
PreservCyt Solution liquid Pap specimens were collected with the
spatula/cyto-brush or a broom-like brush cervical sampling device. The
distribution of cervical sampling devices is summarized in Table 4 by
specimen collection site and overall.
PreservCyt Solution liquid Pap specimens were processed in accordance with
the ThinPrep 2000 Processor Operator's Manual and APTIMA Specimen
Transfer Kit Package Insert. After processing the PreservCyt Solution liquid
Pap specimen with the ThinPrep 2000 Processor, the specimen was
transferred into the APTIMA Specimen Transfer Kit for testing with the
APTIMA CT Assay.
Sensitivity and specificity of the APTIMA CT Assay in PreservCyt Solution
liquid Pap specimens were calculated by comparing results to a patient
infected status algorithm. The algorithm included APTIMA Combo 2 Assay
and APTIMA CT Assay results in endocervical swab specimens. Both
reference NAATs were required to be positive to establish an infected patient
status. At least one reference NAAT was required to be negative to establish a
non-infected patient status. Table 7e summarizes the frequency of test
outcomes for the two reference NAATs.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Table 5b shows the sensitivities and specificities of the APTIMA CT Assay
by symptom status and overall. Overall sensitivity was 95.6% (86/90). In
symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects, sensitivities were 96.7% (29/30) and
95.0% (57/60), respectively. Overall specificity was 98.8% (1539/1557). In
symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects, specificities were 98.8% (325/329)
and 98.9% (1214/1228), respectively.
Table 6b shows the sensitivities and specificities of the APTIMA CT Assay
by specimen collection site and overall. Sensitivities ranged from 92.9% to
100%. Specificities ranged from 96.5% to 100%.
10

--- Page 11 ---
11

--- Page 12 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of C. trachomatis disease in patient populations depends on risk
factors such as age, gender, the presence of symptoms, the type of clinic, and the test
method. A summary of the prevalence of C. trachomatis as determined by the
APTIMA® Assay for Chlamydia trachomatis (ACT) results on PreservCyt liquid Pap
specimens is shown below by clinical site and overall.
12

--- Page 13 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
13