
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K053572
B. Purpose of Submission:
For the detection of the Clostridium difficile common antigen glutamate
dehydrogenase in human stool
C. Measurand:
glutamate dehydrogenase antigen
D. Type of Test:
Horizontal flow enzyme immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Tech Lab®, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Part 866.2660 Microorganism Differentiation and Identification Device
2. Classification:
I
3. Product Code:
MCB – Antigen, Clostridium difficile.
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is a rapid membrane enzyme immunoassay
for use as a screening test to detect Clostridium difficile antigen, glutamate
dehydrogenase, in fecal specimens from persons suspected of having C.
difficile disease. The test does not distinguish toxigenic from nontoxigenic
strains of C. difficile. With the use of additional tests that detect C. difficile
toxins, the test is to be used as an aid in the diagnosis of C. difficile disease.
As with other C. difficile tests, results should be considered in conjunction
with the patient history.
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is a rapid membrane enzyme immunoassay
for use as a screening test to detect Clostridium difficile antigen, glutamate
dehydrogenase, in fecal specimens from persons suspected of having C.
difficile disease. The test does not distinguish toxigenic from nontoxigenic
strains of C. difficile. With the use of additional tests that detect C. difficile
toxins, the test is to be used as an aid in the diagnosis of C. difficile disease.
As with other C. difficile tests, results should be considered in conjunction
with the patient history.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is a rapid membrane enzyme immunoassay that utilizes
antibodies specific for the antigen, glutamate dehydrogenase, of C. difficile. The device
contains a Reaction Window with two vertical lines of immobilized antibodies. The test
line contains antibodies against C. difficile glutamate dehydrogenase. The control line
contains anti-IgG antibodies. The Conjugate consists of antibodies to glutamate
dehydrogenase coupled to horseradish peroxidase.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Triage® Clostridium difficile Panel
2. Predicate K number(s):
K974881
3. Comparison with predicate(s):
Similarities
Item Device Predicates
Intended use an in vitro diagnostic same
product for the detection of
Clostridium difficile in fecal
specimens
Specimen type fecal specimens same
technology Enzyme Immunoassay same
Level of skill Moderately complex same
Differences
Item Device Predicates
Limit of detection 0.8 ng/ml 2.0 ng/ml
Clinical sensitivity 92.8% CI (88.3% -95.7%) 91.1% CI (85.8-96.4%)
Clinical specificity 92.6% CI (90.4% - 94.3%) 93.0% CI (90.7-95.4%)
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
N/A
L. Test Principle:
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is a rapid membrane enzyme immunoassay that utilizes
antibodies specific for the antigen, glutamate dehydrogenase, of C. difficile. The device
contains a Reaction Window with two vertical lines of immobilized antibodies. The test
line (“T”) contains antibodies against C. difficile glutamate dehydrogenase. The control
line (“C”) contains anti-IgG antibodies. The Conjugate consists of antibodies to
glutamate dehydrogenase coupled to horseradish peroxidase. To perform the test, the
sample is added to a tube containing a mixture of Diluent and Conjugate. The diluted
sample-conjugate mixture is added to the Sample Well and the device is allowed to
incubate at room temperature for 15 minutes. During the incubation, any glutamate

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicates	
Intended use			an in vitro diagnostic
product for the detection of
Clostridium difficile in fecal
specimens			same		
Specimen type			fecal specimens			same		
technology			Enzyme Immunoassay			same		
Level of skill			Moderately complex			same		
			Differences					
	Item			Device			Predicates	
Limit of detection			0.8 ng/ml			2.0 ng/ml		
Clinical sensitivity			92.8% CI (88.3% -95.7%)			91.1% CI (85.8-96.4%)		
Clinical specificity			92.6% CI (90.4% - 94.3%)			93.0% CI (90.7-95.4%)		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
dehydrogenase in the sample binds to the antibody-peroxidase conjugate. The antigen-
antibody-conjugate complexes migrate through a filter pad to a membrane where they are
captured by the immobilized glutamate dehydrogenase-specific antibodies in the line.
The Reaction Window is subsequently washed with Wash Buffer, followed by the
addition of Substrate. After a 10 minute incubation period, the “T” reaction is examined
visually for the appearance of a vertical blue line on the “T” side of the Reaction
Window. A blue line indicates a positive test. A positive “C” reaction, indicated by a
vertical blue line on the “C” side of the Reaction Window, confirms that the test is
working properly and the results are valid.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A total of eight fecal specimens, 6 positive and 2 negative were coded
to prevent identification and were sent to each of three independent
laboratories for analysis using the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test. The
results from each laboratory were compared with in-house results.
The positive specimens were confirmed to be positive and the negative
specimens were confirmed to be negative at each site.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
The limit of detection of the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is 0.4
ng/mL.
e. Analytical specificity:
Fecal specimens inoculated with the following microorganisms to a
final concentration of approximately 108 or higher organisms per mL
did not react in the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test:
Bacteria: Aeromonas hydrophila, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus subtilis,
Bacteroides fragilis, Campylobacter coli, Campylobacter fetus,
Campylobacter jejuni, Candida albicans, Clostridium bifermentans,
Clostridium butyricum, Clostridium perfringens Type A, Clostridium
septicum, Clostridium sordellii (toxigenic and nontoxigenic),
Clostridium sporogenes, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli
EIEC, Escherichia coli, Escherichia coli 0157 H7, Escherichia coli
ETEC, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius,
Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Salmonella typhimurium,
Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri, Shigella sonnei,
Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus aureus (Cowans),
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Yersinia
enterocolitica.
The following viruses of 103.3 to 107.5 TCID units per 0.2mL did not
react in the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test:

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
Viruses: Adenovirus types 1,2,3,5,40,41, Human coronavirus,
Coxsackievirus B2,B3,B4,B5, Echovirus 9,11,18,22,33, Enterovirus
type 68,69,70,71.
The following substances had no effect on test results when present in
feces in the concentrations indicated: mucin (3.5% w/v), human blood
(40% v/v), barium sulfate (5% w/v), Imodium® (5% w/v), Kaopectate®
(5 mg/mL), Pepto-Bismol® (5% w/v), steric/palmitic acid (fecal fats,
40% w/v), Metronidazole (0.25% w/v), Vancomycin (0.25% w/v)
f. Assay cut-off
The assay cut-off of the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test is 0.8 ng/mL.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with gold standard:
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test was compared to the bacterial culture
test at two clinical laboratories and in-house at TECHLAB®, Inc.
Specimens included in the evaluation were submitted to the clinical
laboratories for routine testing. The presumptive bacterial culture test
was performed according to the in-house procedures. The results are
shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Summary of clinical performance comparing C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test
to presumptive bacterial culture
Presumptive Bacterial Presumptive Bacterial
Culture positive Culture negative
n=979
C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ positive 206 56
C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ negative 16 701
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 92.8% 88.3% - 95.7%
Specificity 92.6% 90.4% - 94.3%
Predictive Positive Value 78.6% 73.1% - 83.3%
Predictive Negative Value 97.8% 96.3% - 98.7%
Correlation 92.6% 91.7% - 93.4%
Discrepant samples were resolved using commercial tests for C. difficile glutamate
dehydrogenase in ELISA or membrane test formats, or by a research PCR assay for the
detection of C. difficile GDH gene gluD. Twenty-nine of the 56 apparent false positive
samples were positive by another GDH test, and were considered true positives. Twenty-
seven remained false positive. Thirteen of the 16 apparent false negative samples were
negative by another GDH test, and were considered true negatives. Three remained false
negative.

[Table 1 on page 4]
		
	Presumptive Bacterial	Presumptive Bacterial
	Culture positive	Culture negative
n=979		
		
C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ positive	206	56
C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ negative	16	701

[Table 2 on page 4]
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	92.8%	88.3% - 95.7%
Specificity	92.6%	90.4% - 94.3%
Predictive Positive Value	78.6%	73.1% - 83.3%
Predictive Negative Value	97.8%	96.3% - 98.7%
Correlation	92.6%	91.7% - 93.4%

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
The C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test was compared to the bacterial
culture test at two clinical laboratories and in-house at TECHLAB®,
Inc. Specimens included in the evaluation were submitted to the
clinical laboratories for routine testing. The presumptive bacterial
culture test was performed according to the in-house procedures.
Of the 979 specimens analyzed by culture, 206 were positive for
Clostridium difficile. Results are summarized in Tables 1 (See table
.
above)
b. Clinical specificity:
Refer to (a.) above
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b is not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
The clinical cut-off of this assay is approximately 0.4 ng/mL. This limit does
not vary from solid to liquid/semi-solid stool.
5. Expected values/Reference range: (Interpretive Criteria)
Clostridium difficile disease is primarily a nosocomial disease of elderly
patients, and the frequency of the disease is dependent on factors such as
patient population, type of institution and epidemiology. The reported
incidence of C. difficile disease in patients with antibiotic-associated diarrhea
may range from 5 to 20%, and hospitals may experience rates lower or higher
than this range. It is important to consider any test results in conjunction with
clinical symptoms because some healthy adults and large numbers of healthy
infants (up to 50%) will be positive for C. difficile toxin. In addition, C.
difficile carriage rates of 22 to 32% have been reported in cystic fibrosis
patients. Because the C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test detects both toxigenic and
non-toxigenic strains of C. difficile, the expected values of this test are higher
compared to that of any toxin test. A positive result in the C. DIFF QUIK
CHEK™ test confirms the presence of C. difficile in a fecal specimen; a
negative result indicates the absence of the organism. A positive result should
be followed by a toxin-specific test to confirm the presence of toxigenic C.
difficile. The prevalence of a positive C. DIFF QUIK CHEK™ test at an
independent study site was 18.2% (N=578).
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6