
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k060110
B. Purpose for Submission:
Software architecture in CellTracks® Analyzer II operating system was changed. The
operating system MS Windows XP has been changed to Mandrake Linux. This new
operating system (Linux) is not compatible with the current Graphical User Interface
(GUI) and a new GUI program was also developed.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Immunicon Corporation’s CellTracks Analyzer II
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
A semi-automated, qualitative immunomagnetic-capture immunofluorescent
detection image analysis fluorescence microscope used to aid a CLIA-compliant,
CellTracks® trained testing personnel in the enumeration of circulating tumor cells
(CTC) (cells appearing like tumor cells with epithelial cell markers and no
lymphocyte marker on their surfaces).
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The CellTracks® Analyzer II is a semi-automated fluorescence microscope. The
product consists of the CellTracks® Analyzer II, a dedicated computer loaded
with CellTracks® software, monitor, keyboard and mouse.
The CellTracks® Analyzer II is for analysis of rare cells that are isolated from
biological fluids including whole blood. It is used in conjunction with
CellTracks® AutoPrep System, which automates, standardizes and optimizes the
sample preparation with specific reagent kits.
2. Principles of Operation:
The CellTracks® Analyzer II is used in conjunction with the CellTracks®
AutoPrep System and reagent kits that contain a ferro-fluid-based capture reagent
and immunofluorescent reagents for detection and characterization of the captured
cells. The ferrofluid reagent consists of nano-particles with a magnetic core
surrounded by a polymeric layer coated with antibodies targeting the cells of
interest. After immunomagnetic capture and enrichment, fluorescent reagents are
added for identification and enumeration of the target cells.
The processed reagent/sample mixture is dispensed by the CellTracks® AutoPrep
System into a cartridge that is inserted into a MagNest® cell presentation device.
The strong magnetic field of the MagNest® device causes the magnetically-
labeled target cells to move to the surface of the cartridge. The cartridge is then
placed on the CellTracks® Analyzer II for data acquisition and analysis. The
CellTracks® Analyzer II scans the entire surface of the cartridge with a series of
fluorescence filters that are defined for the assay. Cell images from the filter are
compiled and presented in a gallery format for final cell classification by the user.
3. Modes of Operation:
Semi-automated, one-at-a-time MagNest® analysis.
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Specimen Identification:
Identification information entered individually for each patient sample.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The processed reagent/sample mixture is dispensed by the CellTracks AutoPrep
system into a cartridge that is inserted into a MagNest® cell presentation device.
The MagNest® is not mixed or pierced, but put into place manually and then the
surface is automatically scanned. The CLIA-compliant, CellTracks® trained
testing personnel then manually interprets the results.
6. Calibration:
The analyzer is calibrated using the CellTracks® System Verification Cartridge
which contains a strip of material impregnated with dyes. System verification
checks the optical performance and chamber “skew” which ensures proper
scanning. There is no recognized reference material or method.
7. Quality Control:
For the circulating tumor cell assay the CellSearch® Circulating Tumor Cell
Control Kit (available from Veridex, LLC, a Johnson and Johnson company)
should be run once per day of patient testing as a patient sample following each
user’s quality assurance program.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
Frederick Prevo, PhD, (OSEL/DESE) has reviewed the software submission and
found it to be acceptable for a moderate hazard level.
Software validation and traceability of the requirements related to RUO and
Administration were completed on the IVD aspects of the application only.
Requirements related to other functionality were to be tested and traced prior to
launch. Immunicon Corporation will submit to FDA the validation, traceability
documentation and software report upon completion.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.6020-Immunomagnetic Circulating Cancer Cell Selection and
Enumeration System
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
NQI, System, Immunomagnetic, Circulating Cancer Cell, Enumeration
4. Panel:
Immunology (82)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Immunicon CellTracks® Analyzer II is a semi-automated fluorescence
microscope used to enumerate fluorescently labeled cells that are
immunomagnetically selected and aligned. The product is for in vitro diagnostic
use when used in tandem with specimen preparation equipment and reagents that
2

--- Page 3 ---
are legally marketed for in vitro diagnostic use with this device.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
CellTracks® Analyzer II (k050145)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item New Device Predicate
Name CellTracks® Analyzer II CellTracks® Analyzer II
Sample Processed via MagNest® Same
fixture
Available channels for 4 Same
analysis
Sample Holder MagNest Same
Power 100-240 Vac 50-60 Hz. Same
Differences
Item New Device Predicate
Computer Operating Mandrake Linux MS Windows XP
system1
Graphical User Developed to be Linux MS Windows XP
Interface2 compatible
1The Operating system (OS) performs basic tasks such as recognizing input from
the keyboard, sending output to the display screen, keeping track of files and
directories on the disk, and controlling peripheral devices such as disk drives and
printers.
All the algorithms associated with image acquisition, analysis, cell selection,
review, reporting and archiving; the logic and interface to the PC remain the same
with the replacement of the OS.
2 The Graphical User Interface (GUI) is a program interface that uses a
computer’s graphic capabilities to make the program easier to use. Graphical
interfaces use a pointing device to select objects, including icons, menus, text
boxes, etc. A GUI includes standard formats for representing text and graphics.
This allows users to compile defined data in a manner more usable to the
operator. It does not allow them to alter the basic cell definition, count or image
quality.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The CellTracks was developed in conformance to the following standards.
ISO 14971 Medical Devices- Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
FDA Guidance: General Principles of Software Validation
EP5-A NCCLS document: Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			New Device			Predicate	
Name			CellTracks® Analyzer II			CellTracks® Analyzer II		
Sample			Processed via MagNest®
fixture			Same		
Available channels for
analysis			4			Same		
Sample Holder			MagNest			Same		
Power			100-240 Vac 50-60 Hz.			Same		
Differences								
	Item			New Device			Predicate	
Computer Operating
system1			Mandrake Linux			MS Windows XP		
Graphical User
Interface2			Developed to be Linux
compatible			MS Windows XP		

--- Page 4 ---
Devices
EP9-A NCCLS document: Method comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples
All requirements for these standards were met. EP9-A testing was performed using donor
spiked samples rather than actual cancer patient samples.
In addition, the CellTracks Analyzer II will conform to the following two standards prior to
marketing.
IEC 61010-1 IEC: Safety requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control
and Laboratory Use Part 1
BS EN61326 Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control and Laboratory Use - EMC
requirements.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy
Accuracy was demonstrated by a recovery study. 7.5 mL of pooled donor
blood was pipetted into 12 AutoPrep sample tubes. Six of the 12 tubes were
spiked with 50 SKBR-3 cells/50µL and the other 6 were spiked with the 300
SKBR-3 cells/100 µL. The Veridex LLC CellSearch™ Epithelial Cell kit/Cell
Spotter Analyzer, (k031588) was used to assay the samples. Three of the 50
cell count samples were scanned first with the new OS version Linux 1. The
same samples were rescanned with the predicate OS version 1.2 (XP). The
other three 50 cell count samples were first scanned with the predicate OS
version 1.2 (XP) and rescanned with new OS version Linux 1. The same
process was performed with the 300 cell count samples. Equivalent recovery
was obtained with both operating systems (see table below).
New device Predicate
Cell counts 50 300 50 300
Mean 53 304 53 304
SD 9.2 12.5 8.5 13.7
% CV 17.3 4.1 16.0 4.5
Substantial equivalence was also demonstrated by comparing bead counts of
high and low controls between the two devices. Six high control samples and
6 low control samples were pipetted into 12 AutoPrep sample tubes. Each
control sample cartridge was scanned twice. Half of the low control samples
were first scanned with the predicate version 1.2 (XP) and rescanned with the
new device version Linux 1. The other half of the low control samples were
first scanned with the new version Linux 1 and rescanned with predicate
version 1.2(XP). The same process was done with the high control samples.
According to the control product labels, the control cell ranges were:
High control 632-922 beads
Low control 15-65 beads
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
	New device		Predicate	
Cell counts	50	300	50	300
Mean	53	304	53	304
SD	9.2	12.5	8.5	13.7
% CV	17.3	4.1	16.0	4.5

--- Page 5 ---
The following results were obtained:
Low control comparison
(Linux) = 1.0588 (1.2 XP) – 1.4118
R2 = 0.9608
High control comparison
(Linux) = 1.0748 (1.2 XP) – 45.652
R2 = 0.9939
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was measured using a single bead cartridge (approximately 100
beads) scanned 10 times with version 1.2 (XP) software and 10 times with
version 1 Linux software on two different CellTracks® II Analyzers. The
fluorescent beads do not photo-bleach and can be used to compare multiple
scans. Results showed precisions seen with both operating systems are
substantially equivalent.
Summary of Precision Analyses
New device Predicate
Mean 98 98
SD 0.49 0.48
% CV 0.49 0.49
c. Linearity
Linear regression analysis was performed using five cartridges each
containing the following number of fluorescent beads: 0, 5, 99, 559 and 950
into 320 µL of 60% glycerol as diluent. 1000-2000 glacial blue beads were
added to each cartridge to provide enough UV events for focusing. Only
glacial blue beads were added to the 0 cartridge. Fluorescent bead count for
each cartridge was verified using the CellSpotter system (Veridex LLC
CellSearch™ Epithelial Cell kit/Cell Spotter Analyzer, k031588).
Each cartridge were scanned with OS version 1.2 (XP) and rescanned with OS
version1 (Linux).
The following results were obtained:
y = 1.0009x + 0.0958
R2 = 1.0
Conclusion: The new device version is substantially equivalent to the
predicate device and linear to 950 fluorescent beads in 320uL diluent.
c. Carryover:
Refer to predicate device k050145 for carryover studies.
The changes made to the instrument were OS related. This should have no
effect on carryover.
d. Interfering Substances:
Refer to predicate device k050145 for interference studies. The changes made
to the instrument were OS related and there should be no effect on
interference. Thus, no new interfering substances studies were needed.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	New device	Predicate
Mean	98	98
SD	0.49	0.48
% CV	0.49	0.49

--- Page 6 ---
K. Proposed Labeling:
The data indicate substantial equivalence between the new and the old operating
systems. Thus, no changes need to be made to the labeling.
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6