
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060493
B. Purpose for Submission:
To remove a limitation for the detection of vancomycin resistant staphylococci
(VRSA) on Gram Positive AST Phoenix™ panels.
C. Measurand:
Vancomycin at 0.5-32 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (Quantitative and Qualitative) colorimetric
oxidation-reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – vancomycin 0.5-32 µg/mL –
Detection of VRSA
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle
Antimicrobial
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Vancomycin at 0.5-32 µg/mL on the Phoenix™ Gram Positive AST panel is
intended for use with the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System for
the quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most gram-positive bacteria isolates from
pure culture belonging to the genera Staphylococcus and Enterococcus.

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the detection of VRSA with the antibiotic Vancomycin
at 0.5-32 µg/mL on the Phoenix™ Gram Positive AST panel.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
The Phoenix™ Gram Positive AST panel detected vancomycin resistance in
the VRSA S. aureus strains available at the time of comparative testing. The
ability to detect resistance in other S. aureus strains is unknown due to the
limited number of resistant strains available for comparative testing.
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for AST Indicator.
The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily identified as gram
positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and equated to a 0.5
McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer. A
further dilution is made into an AST broth, which contains an AST indicator, prior to
inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-adjusted broth containing Tween 80.
After adding the indicator solution to the AST inoculum, the color is blue, and after
inoculation, incubation and organism growth, it changes to pink then colorless as
reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated panels are barcode scanned and loaded
into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System instrument where the panels are
continuously incubated at 35°C. The resulting AST has a final inoculum of 5 x 105
CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and records the results of the biochemical
substrates and antimicrobial agents and interprets the reactions to give an MIC value and
category interpretation of the antimicrobial agents. Organisms growing in the presence
of a given antimicrobic agent reduce the indicator, signaling organism growth and
resistance to the antimicrobic agent. Organisms killed or inhibited by a given
antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the indicator and therefore do not produce a color
change. Additional interpretation is done using software driven “EXPERT” System
using rules derived from the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI).
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an AST result available between 4-16 hours.
This is only an autoread result; there are no manual readings possible.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® System
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro quantitative Same
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of most bacteria.
Isolates Isolated colonies from culture used Same
Results Report results as minimum inhibitory Same
concentration (MIC) and categorical
interpretation (SIR)
Incubation <16 hours Same
conditions
Type of Test Automated Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reading algorithm Results are determined from Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of extrapolation of doubling
antimicrobial agents dilutions
Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox with detection using an
indicator (colorimetric attenuation of light
oxidation-reduction) to measured by an optical
detect organism growth. scanner.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The AST portion of the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth
based microdilution method that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-
reduction) to enhance detection of organism growth. The MIC is determined by
comparing growth in wells containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the
growth in “growth control wells” which contain no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro quantitative
determination of antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of most bacteria.			Same		
Isolates			Isolated colonies from culture used			Same		
Results			Report results as minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and categorical
interpretation (SIR)			Same		
Incubation
conditions			<16 hours			Same		
Type of Test			Automated			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reading algorithm			Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of
antimicrobial agents			Results are determined from
extrapolation of doubling
dilutions		
Technology			Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox
indicator (colorimetric
oxidation-reduction) to
detect organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.		

--- Page 4 ---
a. Precision/Reproducibility
Intersite and Intrasite testing demonstrated >95% reproducibility
using 12 strains. The ten isolate study described in the guidance
document was used (10 organisms tested 3 times on 3 days at 3
sites).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
Ability to provide acceptable Quality Control with the recommended
strains was established previously with additional testing during the
study. Comparison was made to expected values as established for the
well characterized strains.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A well characterized challenge set of 53 staphylococci with MICs
ranging from 2 -8 were tested on the Phoenix™ Gram Positive
AST panel and compared to an expected value pre determined
using the broth reference method. Additionally 3 known VRSA
were also tested on the Phoenix™ Gram Positive AST Panel with
results that were >16 for all three isolates. The combined EA was
96.2% with no major or very major errors. There is a slight trend
for the Phoenix result to produce a more resistant result if only by
one well.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretative criteria – < 4 μg/ml (S) 8-16 μg/ml (I) and > 32 μg/ml (R)
N. Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
Vancomycin MIC of > 4 µg/mL are recommended for follow up because this is
considered an unusual result for staphylococcus
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.