
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k060774
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S
own Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable (delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) k932887, k943149,
k955434
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which
includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or
promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the
intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device
has not changed.
1) Material changes for pH adjustment
• NaOH (sodium hydroxide) to K PO (potassium phosphate).
3 4
• Folic acid alkaline phosphatase (bovine) conjugate and paramagnetic particles
(PMP) coated with goat anti-mouse IgG suspended in buffer, with human
serum albumin (HSA) buffer to mouse monoclonal anti-folate binding protein,
PMP coated with goat anti-mouse IgG, buffer, HSA.
• Sodium ascorbate to Ascorbate and HCl
• Milk folate binding protein (bovine) and mouse monoclonal anti-folate binding
protein in buffer with HSA, sodium azide and ProClin to milk folate binding
protein (bovine) in buffer and HSA.
• Hydrochloride acid to folic acid alkaline phosphates (bovine) conjugate in buffer
and HSA.
2) Reconfiguration of materials in the well-plate.
3) The folate lysing agent is being modified to remove the human serum albumin
(HSA) to improve storage temperature.
4) Lastly, the reference intervals/expected values are being updated to reflect the
increased normal levels of folate due to folate acid fortification of foods.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and physical
characteristics, immunoassay technology, test protocol, performance, assay principle, cutoff
level and reagents
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on
the device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied

--- Page 2 ---
2
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should
include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk
analysis, all verification and validation activities were performed by the designated
individual(s) and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria
were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR
820.30 and the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the
Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information between
the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has
not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The
New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially
equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.