
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060133
B. Purpose for Submission:
Premarket Notification 510(k) of intention to manufacture and market the
Ischemia Albumin Cobalt Binding Test (ACB® Test) Assay Verification
Set
C. Measurands:
Quality Control Material (assayed) for Albumin Cobalt Binding (ACB)
D. Type of Test:
Not Applicable
E. Applicant:
Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Albumin Cobalt Binding (ACB) Test Assay Verification Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660; Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (assayed and
unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJX; Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (assayed and unassayed)
1

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Ischemia Albumin Cobalt Binding Test (ACB®) Assay Verification
Set is intended for use in verifying accuracy of the ACB Test on the Roche
Integra 700/800. It is recommended as a part of assay installation.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Ischemia Albumin Cobalt Binding Test (ACB®) Assay Verification
Set is intended for use in verifying accuracy of the ACB Test on the Roche
Integra 700/800. It is recommended as a part of assay installation.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Roche Integra 700/800
I. Device Description:
The ACB® Test Assay Verification Set (AVS) is an assayed control
material with established albumin cobalt binding capacity. It is a single
use, non-sterile, in vitro diagnostic device consisting of twenty (20) single
vial 0.5mL aliquots of serum based samples. The samples are assigned
IMA values over the physiological range (40-180U/mL) and at points just
above and just below the 85U/mL cut-off. Sample value range is such that
an analytical correlation study can be evaluated by the user to determine
whether their analyzer is accurately measuring IMA levels in clinical
specimens. The AVS device is supplied in frozen liquid form and is stable
up to the expiry date.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Maine Standards Company VALIDATE CHEM 3 Calibration Verification
Test Set.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
2. Predicate k number(s):
K012119
3. Comparison with predicate:
Comparison of Ischemia Albumin Cobalt Binding Test (ACB®) Assay Verification Set
k060133 to the Predicate Maine Standards Company VALIDATE CHEM 3 Calibration
Verification Test Set k012119
Characteristics Albumin Cobalt Binding Maine Standards Company
Test (ACB®) Assay VALIDATE CHEM 3
Verification Set k060133 Calibration Verification
Test Set k012119
Intended Use For use in verifying For in vitro diagnostic use
accuracy of the ACB Test in quantitatively verifying
on the Roche Integra calibration, validating
700/800. It is recommended reportable ranges and
as part of assay installation. determining linearity in
For in vitro diagnostic use. automated, semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems.
Matrix EDTA and CoCl in off-clot Human serum protein base
2
human serum
Form Frozen liquid Liquid ready to use
Levels 20 levels covering the 6 including zero
physiological range
Analytes Single analyte Multiple analytes of total
representative of ischemia protein, albumin, and
modified albumin cholesterol.
Analyzer Roche Integra 700/800 Automated, semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems, including Roche
Integra Systems
Vial Volume 0.5mL per vial 5.0mL of each level
Storage and Stability Until expiry when frozen at Until expiration at 2-8°C
Unopened -70°C or 4 weeks when
frozen at -20°C
Storage and Stability 12 hours when thawed and Until expiration at 2-8°C
Opened refrigerated at 2-8°C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None Stated
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristics	Albumin Cobalt Binding
Test (ACB®) Assay
Verification Set k060133	Maine Standards Company
VALIDATE CHEM 3
Calibration Verification
Test Set k012119
Intended Use	For use in verifying
accuracy of the ACB Test
on the Roche Integra
700/800. It is recommended
as part of assay installation.
For in vitro diagnostic use.	For in vitro diagnostic use
in quantitatively verifying
calibration, validating
reportable ranges and
determining linearity in
automated, semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems.
Matrix	EDTA and CoCl in off-clot
2
human serum	Human serum protein base
Form	Frozen liquid	Liquid ready to use
Levels	20 levels covering the
physiological range	6 including zero
Analytes	Single analyte
representative of ischemia
modified albumin	Multiple analytes of total
protein, albumin, and
cholesterol.
Analyzer	Roche Integra 700/800	Automated, semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems, including Roche
Integra Systems
Vial Volume	0.5mL per vial	5.0mL of each level
Storage and Stability
Unopened	Until expiry when frozen at
-70°C or 4 weeks when
frozen at -20°C	Until expiration at 2-8°C
Storage and Stability
Opened	12 hours when thawed and
refrigerated at 2-8°C	Until expiration at 2-8°C

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable. This submission is for clearance of control material.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable. The assay is intended for qualitative use.
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Traceability:
The Ischemia Assay Verification Set (AVS) is manufactured from
commercially available pooled serum (off-the-clot), cobalt chloride
and EDTA. Each material is tested individually for expected value.
The final formulation is standardized for assay level internally
using the Ischemia Technologies Albumin Cobalt Binding
(ACB®) Test with known concentrations of cobalt chloride in
serum and EDTA.
The serum is tested in duplicate using the ACB Test on the Cobas
Mira Plus analyzer. Values for serum must fall within 60-
100U/mL. Cobalt chloride and EDTA stock solutions are prepared
in volume ranges from 0.5 µL to 10 µL and tested, in duplicate,
using the ACB Test on a calibrated analyzer. The average ACB
value is plotted against the volume of added cobalt chloride and
EDTA and the curve fit must be linear with an R2 value of ≥ 0.95.
The AVS formulation is evaluated by running the ACB Test, in
duplicate, on increasing volumes of cobalt chloride in a serum and
EDTA matrix using a calibrated analyzer. Average values are
plotted against the volume of cobalt chloride and the curve
generated must be linear with an R2 value of ≥ 0.95. Initial target
values are then confirmed internally prior to bulk formulation
filling.
Each of the 20 AVS levels is dispensed from the bulk formulation
in 0.5 mL aliquots and in appropriate dilution level into Micro
4

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
Tubes with caps labeled with lot number and assay level (1-20).
Product is boxed and placed in a -70° C freezer.
Controls and Calibrators:
There are no additional controls or calibrators used for AVS other
than those cleared for use under the Albumin Cobalt Binding Test
510(k) s
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part
809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and
supports a substantial equivalence decision.
6