
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060462
B. Purpose for Submission:
Marketing product in U.S.
C. Measurand:
Progesterone Receptor on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded breast cancer specimens
D. Type of Test:
Immunohistochemical
E. Applicant:
Lab Vision Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
NeoMarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human Progesterone Receptor Antibody
(Clone SP2)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §864.1860 Immunohistochemistry reagents and kits
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MXZ
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Pathology 88
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Neomarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human Progesterone Receptor Antibody
(Clone SP2) is an immunohistochemical (IHC) assay intended for laboratory use
for the qualitative detection of progesterone receptor (PR) antigen by light
microscopy in sections of formalin fixed, paraffin embedded normal and
neoplastic tissues on a Lab Vision automated slide stainer.
2. Indication(s) for use:
It is indicated as an aid in assessing the likelihood of response to therapy as well
as in the prognosis and management of breast cancer patients
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
Lab Vision Autostainer
I. Device Description:
The NeoMarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human Progesterone Receptor (PR)
(Clone SP2) Antibody is a semiquantitative immunohistochemical assay to identify
PR expression in normal and neoplastic tissues routinely processed and paraffin-
embedded. The antibodies are available as ready-to-use and concentrated and are
optimized for use on the Lab Vision Autostainer.
NeoMarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human PR Antibody (Ready-to-use) contains
rabbit anti-human monoclonal antibody prediluted in 0.05 mol/L Tris-HCL, pH 7.6
containing stabilizing protein and 0.015 mol/L sodium azide. The specific antibody
concentration is approximately 1.6 μg/mL.
NeoMarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human PR Antibody (Concentrate) contains 1
mL (or 0.1 mL, 0.5 mL) concentrated tissue culture supernatant containing rabbit
anti-human monoclonal antibody directed against PR antigen, with 0.05% sodium
azide as a preservative. The specific antibody concentration is approximately 160
μg/mL.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Ventana Anti-Progesterone Receptor (1A6) Primary Antibody
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k990618
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Antibody type Monoclonal Monoclonal
Intended use Semi-quantitative Semi-quantitative
detection of PR detection of PR
Technology Immunohistochemistry Immunohistochemistry
Tissue Type Formalin-fixed, paraffin Formalin-fixed, paraffin
embedded breast tissue embedded breast tissue
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Antibody origin Rabbit Mouse
Clone (PR) SP2 1A6
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Guidance for Industry: Guidance for Submission of Immunohistochemistry
Applications to the FDA”
L. Test Principle:
NeoMarkers Rabbit Monoclonal Anti-Human PR Antibody, specifically binds to
progesterone receptor antigen located in the nuclear region of a variety of normal and
neoplastic tissues. Immunohistochemical staining is performed on routinely
processed, paraffin-embedded specimens. Immunohistochemistry is a well
established, widely accepted laboratory methodology. The specific antibody is
localized by a biotin conjugated secondary antibody formulation that recognizes
rabbit immunoglobulins. This step is followed by the addition of an
avidin/streptavidin enzyme conjugate that binds to the biotin present on the secondary
antibody. The specific antibody-secondary antibody-avidin/streptavidin enzyme
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibody type			Monoclonal			Monoclonal		
Intended use			Semi-quantitative
detection of PR			Semi-quantitative
detection of PR		
Technology			Immunohistochemistry			Immunohistochemistry		
Tissue Type			Formalin-fixed, paraffin
embedded breast tissue			Formalin-fixed, paraffin
embedded breast tissue		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibody origin			Rabbit			Mouse		
Clone (PR)			SP2			1A6		

--- Page 4 ---
complex is then visualized with a precipitating enzyme reaction product, which is
readily detected by light microscopy.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra-run Reproducibility
Ten serial sections were cut from each of three breast carcinoma blocks for a
total of 30 slides. The slides were stained on the autostainer and staining
intensity was evaluated. Each slide showed acceptable reproducibility to
others in the test and there was no variation in staining intensity.
Inter-run Reproducibility
Ten serial sections were cut from each of three breast carcinoma blocks for a
total of 30 slides. One slide from each block was stained on the autostainer
for each of 10 days. Each slide showed acceptable reproducibility over the 10
days. One block showed greater than one degree of staining intensity
variation on one day. The other slides showed no variation in staining
intensity.
Inter-method Reproducibility
Ten different breast carcinoma blocks of varying positivity were stained using
the manual method and the automated stainer to determine reproducibility
between the different methods. There was acceptable reproducibility between
the two methods.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Positive and negative controls should be performed with each staining run.
The pathologist is responsible for assuring that the assay is performing
properly.
d. Detection limit:
N/A
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
A total of 90 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues covering a wide
range of normal human tissue types were tested with the PR antibody. The
antibody demonstrated negative immunoreactivity with most tissues. Positive
immunoreactivity was noted with some normal tissues which are typically
positive, like uterus, ovary and ductal epithelial cells of the breast.
f. Assay cut-off:
A positive staining result is defined as more than 10% of tumor cells with
stained nuclei of any intensity.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Comparison of the Neomarkers PR antibodies was performed with the
predicate device using breast carcinoma tissue arrays.
A total of 250 tissues were tested. There was 95.2% (238/250) total
agreement (95% CI, 91.77-97.5%) between NeoMarkers PR antibody and the
predicate device. The positive percent agreement was 98.83% (169/171)
(95% CI, 95.84-99.86%). The negative percent agreement was 87.34%
(69/79) (95% CI, 77.95-93.76%).
In addition, Cano et.al1 investigated the PR status on 40 paraffin sections from
breast cancer patients using the NeoMarkers PR antibody in comparison to the
predicate device. Total agreement was observed: sensitivity was 100%
(18/18), specificity was 100% (22/22), and accuracy was 100% (40/40).
1Cano, G. et.al. Estimation of hormone receptor status in fine-needle aspirates
and paraffin-embedded sections from breast cancer using the novel rabbit
monoclonal antibodies SP1 and SP2. Diagn. Cytopathol. 29(4):207-211,
2003.
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
5

--- Page 6 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N/A
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6