
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 7
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060257/S1
B. Purpose for Submission:
Submission of the antibiotic cefoxitin at concentrations of 0.5 - 64 µg/mL for
additional organisms groups to the Gram Negative ID/AST or AST only Phoenix™
panel.
C. Measurand:
Cefoxitin at 0.5 - 64 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (Quantitative and Qualitative) colorimetric
oxidation-reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Cefoxitin 0.5 - 64 µg/mL
Gram Negative (GN) panel
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle
Antimicrobial
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cefoxitin at concentrations of 0.5 - 64 µg/mL on the Phoenix™ Gram
Negative ID/AST and AST only panel is intended for use with the Phoenix™
system in clinical laboratories as an in vitro test to determine the susceptibility
of most Gram-negative aerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria isolates

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
from pure culture for Enterobacteriaceae and non-Enterobacteriaceae to
antimicrobial agents when used as instructed in the Phoenix™ system user’s
manual.
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is intended for the
in vitro quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most gram-negative aerobic and facultative
anaerobic bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae and non -
Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive bacteria belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus and Enterococcus.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the antibiotic cefoxitin at concentrations
of 0.5 - 64 µg/mL for additional organism groups to the Gram Negative
ID/AST or AST only Phoenix™ panel.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
This submission is for the AST Panel only. The ID system was not reviewed.
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for the AST
Indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and
equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™
Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST broth, which contains an AST
indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-adjusted broth
containing Tween 80. After adding the indicator solution to the AST inoculum, the color
is blue, and after inoculation and incubation, it changes to pink then colorless as
reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated panels are barcode scanned and loaded
into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System instrument where the panels are
continuously incubated at 35°C. The resulting AST has a final inoculum of 5 x 105
CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and records the results of the antimicrobial
agents and interprets the reactions to give an MIC value and category interpretation of the
antimicrobial agents. Organisms growing in the presence of a given antimicrobic agent
reduce the indicator, signaling organism growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent.
Organisms killed or inhibited by a given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the
indicator and therefore do not produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done
using software driven “EXPERT” System using rules derived from the Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI). Readings are taken every 20 minutes an AST

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
result available between 4-16 hours. This is only an autoread result; there are no manual
readings possible.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® System
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro rapid same
quantitative determination of
antimicrobial susceptibility by
minimal inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.
Isolates Isolated colonies from culture used Isolated colonies from
culture used
Results Report results as minimum Report results as
inhibitory concentration (MIC) minimum inhibitory
and categorical interpretation concentration (MIC) and
(SIR) categorical interpretation
(SIR)
Incubation <16 hours <16 hours
conditions
Type of Test Automated Automated
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reading algorithm Results are determined from Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of extrapolation of doubling
antimicrobial agents dilutions
Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox with detection using an
indicator (colorimetric attenuation of light
oxidation-reduction) to measured by an optical
detect organism growth. scanner.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16)“Methods

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro rapid
quantitative determination of
antimicrobial susceptibility by
minimal inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.			same		
Isolates			Isolated colonies from culture used			Isolated colonies from
culture used		
Results			Report results as minimum
inhibitory concentration (MIC)
and categorical interpretation
(SIR)			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)		
Incubation
conditions			<16 hours			<16 hours		
Type of Test			Automated			Automated		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reading algorithm			Results are determined from
serial twofold dilutions of
antimicrobial agents			Results are determined from
extrapolation of doubling
dilutions		
Technology			Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a redox
indicator (colorimetric
oxidation-reduction) to
detect organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.		
								

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The AST portion of the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth
based microdilution method that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-
reduction) to enhance detection of organism growth. The MIC is determined by
comparing growth in wells containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the
growth in “growth control wells” which contain no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility
Intersite and Intrasite testing demonstrated >95% reproducibility.
The ten isolate study described in the guidance document was used
(10 organisms tested 3 times on 3 days at 3 sites).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method)
Organism Concentration Reference Phoenix™
µg/ml Results Results
E. coli <= 0.5 182 190
ATCC 25922 1
Expected 2
Range 4
<=0.5 µg/mL 8
16
32
64
Phoenix™ produced acceptable QC results as compared to the reference
method results >95% of the time.
Inoculum density control: The organisms suspension density of the ID
broth was equivalent to a 0.5McFarland standard using the BBL™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of testing.
Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the BBL ™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible results. Five
different instruments were used.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 4]
Organism	Concentration
µg/ml	Reference
Results	Phoenix™
Results
			
E. coli
ATCC 25922
Expected
Range
<=0.5 µg/mL	<= 0.5	182	190
	1		
	2		
	4		
	8		
	16		
	32		
	64		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The broth dilution reference panel was prepared according to the
CLSI recommendation and used to compare with the Phoenix™
results. Clinical testing was performed at four sites. The testing
included both fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates along with a
challenge set with known results. Performance charts below include
all data, original and the additional organisms for fresh and
challenge organisms.
Cefoxitin (FOX) - GN Clinical and Challenge Data Additional Organism Groups
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA CA CA % #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA % Tot N
Combined 1397 1353 96.9 1096 1059 96.6 1397 1303 93.3 384 87 5 2
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
CA-Category Agreement vmj-very major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panels agree with the
reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling dilution of the
reference method. Category agreement (CA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panel
result interpretation agrees exactly with the reference panel result interpretation.
Evaluable (Eval) are results that are within the test range and on scale.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 5]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	CA
Tot	CA
N	CA %	#R	min	maj	vmj
Combined	1397	1353	96.9	1096	1059	96.6	1397	1303	93.3	384	87	5	2

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretive criteria = ≤ 8 (S), 16 (I), ≥ 32 (R) for Enterobacteriaceae
N. Proposed Labeling
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC for gram negative panels are
included in the package insert. The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the
requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7