
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060953
B. Purpose for Submission:
Marketing in the U.S.
C. Measurand:
Human Hemoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Immunological test for the qualitative detection of monoclonal antibodies for human
hemoglobin
E. Applicant:
YD Diagnostics Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
OcculTech Fecal Occult Blood Rapid Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.6550 Occult Blood Test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KHE
4. Panel:
Hematology 81
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The OcculTech Fecal Occult Blood Rapid test is a card type rapid test and an
immunochromatographic based in-vitro test designed for qualitative detection of
fecal occult blood that can be performed in laboratories or physician’s offices. It
is useful in determining gastrointestinal bleeding found in a number of
gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., diverticulitis, colitis, polyps and colorectal
cancer).
2. Indication(s) for use:
This device is recommended for use in routine physical examinations, when
hospital patients are first admitted, hospital monitoring for bleeding in patients,
and screening for colorectal cancer or gastrointestinal bleeding from any source.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The device is composed of a single test strip enclosed in a plastic case which has a
sample hole and a test result window on the same side. The test strip has three
sections: the lower wick is made of the sample and conjugate pad; the test area
consists of white nitrocellulose membrane immobilized with monoclonal anti-
hemoglobin IgG, which is located on the center of the strip; and the absorption pad on
the upper wick. Specimen is collected on a grooved sample stick and placed in a
specimen collection tube containing an extraction buffer.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Alfa Scientific, Inc. Instant-View™ Fecal Occult Blood Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K021423
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Sample Feces in extraction buffer Same
Intended Use Qualitative detection of Same
fecal occult blood in
feces by professional
laboratories and
physician’s offices
Sensitivity 50 ng hHb/ml buffer Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Extraction Buffer Tris Buffer PBS Buffer
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle:
The OcculTech Fecal Occult Blood Rapid Test is a colloidal gold enhanced
immunoassay for the detection of hemoglobin in human stool. The stool is collected
into a sample collection tube containing a buffer. The extracted stool sample in
buffer is then dropped onto the sample pad of the test device and migrates by
capillary action through the test zone. If the specimen contains hemoglobin an
antigen-antibody complex forms with the monoclonal anti-hemoglobin IgG gold
colloid conjugate in the conjugate pad. The mixture migrates to the nitrocellulose
membrane in the test region where an immobilized monoclonal anti-hemoglobin IgG
forms a sandwich binding if hemoglobin is present. The captured dye-complex
becomes visible as a colored line within the test zone, which indicates the test has
detected human hemoglobin. In the absence of hemoglobin no line is formed in the
test zone.
A procedural control is built into the test device to indicate proper test performance.
It appears as a rose-pink sandwich dye conjugate reaction and should appear
regardless of the test result.
A rose-pink band in the test zone and in the control zone at or before five minutes is
considered a positive result by the criteria of the test. A band only in the control zone
at five minutes is a negative result.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample			Feces in extraction buffer			Same		
Intended Use			Qualitative detection of
fecal occult blood in
feces by professional
laboratories and
physician’s offices			Same		
Sensitivity			50 ng hHb/ml buffer			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Extraction Buffer			Tris Buffer			PBS Buffer		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
40 human stool extraction samples were spiked with hHb at the following
concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 2000 ng/ml. 8 samples were tested at
each concentration with three lots of the OcculTech FOBT and the predicate
device. Samples with concentrations below 50 ng/ml hHb tested negative
with the candidate and predicate device while samples at and above 50 ng/ml
tested positive.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Internal Control: A procedural control is built into the test device to indicate
proper test performance. It appears as a rose-pink sandwich dye conjugate
reaction and should appear regardless of the test result.
External Control: Positive and negative controls should be run to insure that
the captured and conjugated antibodies are present and reactive.
d. Detection limit:
The minimal detectable concentration of hHb is 50 ng/ml in buffer or 5ug/g in
feces.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity
This FOB test is specific to human hemoglobin. The following substances
when spiked in both positive and negative specimens did not interfere with the
test results.
Substance Concentration (ug/ml)
Chicken Hb 500 ug/ml
Pig Hb 500 ug/ml
Horse Hb 500 ug/ml
Beef Hb 2000 ug/ml
Rabbit Hb 200 ug/ml
Goat Hb 500 ug/ml
Fish Hb Meat extract
Sheep Hb Meat extract
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Substance	Concentration (ug/ml)
Chicken Hb	500 ug/ml
Pig Hb	500 ug/ml
Horse Hb	500 ug/ml
Beef Hb	2000 ug/ml
Rabbit Hb	200 ug/ml
Goat Hb	500 ug/ml
Fish Hb	Meat extract
Sheep Hb	Meat extract

--- Page 5 ---
Dietary Interference
Aqueous extracts of horseradish peroxidase, red radish, raw turnip,
cauliflower, broccoli, parsnip, cantaloupe, and ascorbic acid, iron and human
serum albumin were tested with and without hHb by OcculTech FOBT and
the predicate device. All tests were negative when hHb was absent and
positive when hHb was present.
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
One hundred human hemoglobin free stool extraction specimens were
collected and divided into 5 groups of 20. The 5 groups were spiked with hHb
in the following concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 2000 ng/mL. The
specimens were tested by three professionals at physician offices with diverse
educational backgrounds and work experiences and at a reference laboratory
using both the OcculTech FOBT and the predicate device.
The results of the POL tests agreed 98% with expected results. The results
obtained from the reference laboratory agreed 99% with the expected results.
There was 99% agreement between the OcculTech FOBT and the predicate
device.
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6