
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K060978
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new instrument and test strip
C. Measurand:
Prothrombin Time
D. Type of Test:
Electrochemical
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CoaguChek® XS System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7750
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GJS
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The CoaguChek® XS System is intended for use by professional healthcare providers for
quantitative prothrombin time testing for the monitoring of warfarin therapy. The
CoaguChek® XS System uses fresh capillary or non-anticoagulated venous whole blood.
2. Indication(s) for use:
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
The CoaguChek® XS System includes a meter and CoaguChek® XS PT test strips. The test
strip contains a human recombinant tissue factor, and is calibrated to an ISI of 1.0.
The test strip incorporates quality control material that accesses strip integrity.
The CoaguChek® XS meter automatically stores up to 100 test results along with their dates
and times in memory.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Roche Diagnostics CoaguChek S System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K020831
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Quantitative prothrombin same
time (PT) using fresh
capillary or non-
anticoagulated venous
whole blood
Measuring Range 0.8- 8.0 INR Same
Sample Volume 10 µl same
Reagent Human recombinant same
thromboplastin
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology Electrochemical with Optical detection of
amperometric detection of thrombin activity
thrombin activity
Quality Control On-board integrated QC External liquid controls and
which detects test strip electronic quality control
integrity
Test Strip Dosing Top and side dosing Top dosing only
Memory 100 test results with time 60 test results with time
and date and date
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS/CLSI Document C28-A, “How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals”
L. Test Principle:
When a blood sample is applied to the test strip, thromboplastin activates the coagulation
cascade which leads to the formation of thrombin. Thrombin cleaves the thrombin substrate
creating an electrochemically active peptide, which generates an electrical signal. The signal
is converted to an INR value and displayed by the CoaguChek XS System.
The on-board quality control is a bi-level control that accesses test strip integrity. The PT
test and QC testing are performed simultaneously. The test system determines whether the
quality control is within preset limits. If it is, the meter displays a short term “QC(cid:51)”, and
then the PT test result. If the QC is not within limits, the meter displays “error QC”, and no
PT test result will be displayed.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Quantitative prothrombin
time (PT) using fresh
capillary or non-
anticoagulated venous
whole blood			same		
Measuring Range			0.8- 8.0 INR			Same		
Sample Volume			10 µl			same		
Reagent			Human recombinant
thromboplastin			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Technology			Electrochemical with
amperometric detection of
thrombin activity			Optical detection of
thrombin activity		
Quality Control			On-board integrated QC
which detects test strip
integrity			External liquid controls and
electronic quality control		
Test Strip Dosing			Top and side dosing			Top dosing only		
Memory			100 test results with time
and date			60 test results with time
and date		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was evaluated by performing duplicate measurements of both capillary and
venous blood. The acceptance criteria for venous blood was ≤ 4.5% INR and ≤ 7.5 %
INR for capillary samples. Testing was performed on two lots of test strips and
demonstrated acceptable performance.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
Testing demonstrated no interference with unfractionated heparin up to 2 u/ml from
normal donors, and up to 0.8 u/mL for warfarin patients. Acceptance criteria was
≤10% difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
Tinzaparin and Enozaprin (LMWH’s) showed no interference up to 2 IU anti-Xa
activity/ml for both normal donors and warfarin patients. Acceptance criteria was
≤10% difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
Testing was performed to demonstrate the interference of bilirubin, lipemia, and
hemolysis. Results showed no interference from bilirubin up to 30 mg/dL, lipemia up
to 500 mg/dL, and hemolysis up to 1000 mg/dL. Acceptance criteria was ≤10%
difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Study involving 361 patients (43% female, 57% male) at 3 sites. Clinical conditions
include normal -not on warfarin (63), atrial fibrillation (175), valve replacement (36),
stroke/TIS (28), DVT (16), other heart-related disorders (4), other clotting disorders
(6), other (33). Two lots of test strips, on two meters were used. Results were
compared to a Dade Innovin® thromboplastin (ISI =1.02) assayed on a Sysmex®
analyzer. Bias plots were presented to demonstrate bias with a laboratory plasma
method. Acceptance criteria was ≤0.5 INR difference to lab INR for INR’s in the
range of 0.8 to 2.9, and ≤30% difference to lab INR for INR’s in the range of 2.0 to
4.5. Data demonstrated acceptable results for all sites.
Regression analysis was presented for the entire data set (venous y= 1.034x -0.02,
Slope CI 1.017-1.053, Int CI -0.04-0.01, r=0.974, n=710; capillary y= 1.006x +0.032,
Slope CI 0.990-1.023, Int CI -0.01-0.06, r=0.971, n=700) and each site across the
reportable range. The regression analysis for the entire data set is included in the
package insert.
b. Matrix comparison:
Regression analysis was presented to compared capillary versus venous results by
site, and combined for two lot of test strips. Lot 1 (y = 0.97 x + 0.033; y =1.00 x + 0;
y =0.97 x + 0.047/y =0.98 x + 0.023) and Lot 2 (y = 1.00 x + 0; y =1.00 x + 0; y
=1.00 x + 0/y =1.00 x + 0) both meet the acceptance criterion (slope 0.95-1.05,
intercept of ± 0.1).
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Normal range testing was conducted on 121 patients who were not on oral anticoagulant
therapy. Both capillary and venous samples were collect from each patient. Samples
5

--- Page 6 ---
were tested on two lots of CoaguChek XS PT strips. Results demonstrated a normal
range of 0.9 to 1.1 INR with more than 95% of all results falling within that range.
N. Instrument Name:
CoaguChek XS meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Manual, closed system
2. Software:
The CoaguChek XS software controls the user interface, buttons used to navigate the user
interface and to configure the device, storage of patient results, transfer of measurement
results using serial infrared communication in an open mode, transfer of production and
calibration results using serial infrared communication in a protected mode, reading and
storage of specific information for strip LOT from code key, calculation of PT time based
on data received from measurement cycle, and checks for failsafe in order to recognize
malfunctions of the measurement electronics or malfunctions within the strip used for
testing.
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ___(cid:51)_____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Date and time of testing is recorded by the CoaguChek XS meter
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Whole blood is manually applied to the target area of the test strip either from the top or
side of the strip.
5. Calibration:
The CoaguChek XS Test strips are calibrated to a master reagent lot which has in turn
been calibrated to a WHO International Reference Preparations (rTF/95) using the
manual tilt tube method.
6. Quality Control:
6

--- Page 7 ---
The CoaguChek XS System incorporates a bi-level on-board quality control (OBC)
within the CoaguChek XS test strip that monitors test strip integrity.
Level 1 OBC detects strip defects such as reagent defects, capillary compression and
electrode defects. Level 2 OBC directly measures strip damage due to such things as
exposure to increased humidity, light, and temperature.
The pre-determined OBC ranges are programmed into the lot specific code chip that is
packaged with the matching test strip lot.
Acceptable data was presented validating the OBC.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In the
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
An instrument failsafe checklist was presented outlining the QC check made by the
CoaguChek XS meter.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7

--- Page 8 ---
8