
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k060788
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device (addition of methadone to an existing toxicology control)
C. Measurand:
Not applicable
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Biosite, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Triage® TOX Drug Screen Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3280
2. Classification:
Class I (reserved)
3. Product code:
DIF
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls are to be used with the Triage TOX
Screen tests and Triage Meters to assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Biosite Triage Meters
I. Device Description:
Level 1 of the Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls is a negative control prepared from
drug-free urine. Level 2 is a positive control prepared by adding d/l-methadone,
acetaminophen, d-amphetamine, d-methamphetamine, pentobarbital, estazolam,
desipramine, phencyclidine, morphine, benzoylecgonine, and tetrahydrocannabinol to
human urine. The concentrations for each drug in the positive control are 2-4 times
the cutoff concentration of the respective drug assays.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Biosite Triage TOX Drug Screen Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k050037
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Same Qualitative control for common
drugs of abuse
Matrix Same Liquid (human urine)
Positive control Same 2-4 times cutoff concentration for each
concentrations analyte
Storage Same -20o C or below
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Constituents Same, with the acetaminophen, d-amphetamine,
addition of d/l- d-methamphetamine, pentobarbital,
methadone estazolam, desipramine, phencyclidine,
morphine, benzoylecgonine, and
tetrahydrocannabinol
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Same			Qualitative control for common
drugs of abuse		
Matrix			Same			Liquid (human urine)		
Positive control
concentrations			Same			2-4 times cutoff concentration for each
analyte		
Storage			Same			-20o C or below		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Constituents			Same, with the
addition of d/l-
methadone			acetaminophen, d-amphetamine,
d-methamphetamine, pentobarbital,
estazolam, desipramine, phencyclidine,
morphine, benzoylecgonine, and
tetrahydrocannabinol		

--- Page 3 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The controls are traceable to commercially available drug-free urine and
d/l-methadone. The negative control is drug-free urine with a zero
concentration of all analytes. The d/l-methadone is solubilized in distilled
water to produce a concentrated stock solution, which is then diluted with
drug-free urine to the final concentration of the positive control.
Stability
The sponsor’s real-time stability protocol uses the following formula to
calculate recovery at specific storage times at -20oC:
% recovery = (measured concentration at time point) /
-20C
(measured concentration at time point)
-70C
The sponsor’s stability criteria are met when all of the time point
recoveries at -20oC are within 80 to 120 percent of the recoveries at -70oC
or when the trendline recovery lies within an 80 to 120 percent recovery
acceptance window.
At the time of submission, the sponsor had collected two weeks of
stability data on the controls. On-going real-time stability testing of the
controls will continue until the material fails the pre-determined
acceptance criteria. The shelf life of the controls will be extended based
upon the on-going real-time stability data.
All stability claims are for closed-vial stability only. Open-vial stability is
not applicable to this device since it is intended for one time use.
Value Assignment
The negative control consists of drug-free urine and therefore contains
none of the drugs of abuse currently available on the Triage system. To
add methadone to the previously cleared positive control, a concentrated
3

--- Page 4 ---
stock solution was diluted with drug-free urine to a final concentration of
750 ng/mL (calculated gravimetrically). Values were verified by
analyzing 90 replicates of each control using three lots and two operators
over three days. All of the negative control replicates produced negative
results for all analytes and all of the positive control replicates produced
positive results for all analytes.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4