
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k060503
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Tacrolimus assay
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable - Calibrator
E. Applicant:
DADE BEHRING, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
DIMENSION TACR CALIBRATOR
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
DLJ II 21 CFR 862.3200 Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Dimension® TACR Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product intended to
be used to calibrate the Tacrolimus (TACR) method for the Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
DLJ			II			21 CFR 862.3200			Toxicology (91)		

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Dimension® TACR Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product intended to
be used to calibrate the Tacrolimus (TACR) method for the Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Dimension clinical chemistry system
I. Device Description:
The Dimension TACR calibrator is a stabilized human whole blood hemolysate
product containing tacrolimus. The kit consists of two vials of each calibrator level 1-
5. The target concentrations are approximately 0, 3, 6, 12, and 32.5 ng/mL tacrolimus.
The calibrators contain human blood components. Each lot was tested and found to be
non-reactive for Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg), Antibodies to Human
Immunodeficiency Virus 1 and 2 (HIV 1/2), and Antibody to Hepatitis C Virus
(HCV).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate Abbott IMx Tacrolimus II Calibrator
P970007
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Calibrators intended for
use as a reference in
Intended use measuring tacrolimus Same
with their respective
assays.
Matrix Whole blood hemolysate Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Target concentrations 0, 3, 6, 12, and 32.5 0, 3, 6, 12, 20, and 30
ng/mL ng/mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Predicate			Abbott IMx Tacrolimus II Calibrator
P970007				
Similarities							
	Item	Device				Predicate	
Intended use		Calibrators intended for
use as a reference in
measuring tacrolimus
with their respective
assays.			Same		
Matrix		Whole blood hemolysate			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences						
	Item	Device			Predicate	
Target concentrations		0, 3, 6, 12, and 32.5
ng/mL		0, 3, 6, 12, 20, and 30
ng/mL		

--- Page 3 ---
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Class II Special Controls
Guidance Document: http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/guidance/1380.html
Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus OIVD DCTD
Assays; Guidance for Industry
and FDA
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable - calibrator
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Purified tacrolimus powder and whole blood hemolysate and are used to
prepare a stock solution. The master pool lots are prepared by diluting the
stock to obtain specific target concentrations. The concentrations for the
reference lot are assigned by LC/MS/MS. The target concentrations are
approximately 0, 3, 6, 12, and 32.5 ng/mL tacrolimus.
Shelf-life and opened vial stability studies were conducted using real time
data collected from three (3) lots of the TACR cartridge. The data from the
sponsor’s studies supported a shelf life of 12 months when the product is
stored frozen (-15 to -25˚C) and opened vial stability of 30 days when the
product is stored at 2-8˚C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Class II Special Controls
Guidance Document:
Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus
Assays; Guidance for Industry
and FDA	OIVD	DCTD	http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/guidance/1380.html
			

--- Page 4 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information is this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence determination.
4