
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k060215
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of new device
C. Measurand:
Assayed Controls for urine albumin assays
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable. This submission is for clearance of controls.
E. Applicant:
Eurotrol B.V.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
AlbuTrol Controls (Low and High)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Single (Specified) Analyte Class I 21 CFR 862.1660, Quality 75 CLINICAL
Controls (Assayed And control material (assayed CHEMISTRY (CH)
Unassayed) (JJX) and unassayed).
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Albutrol is an assayed albumin control intended for professional use in the verification of
the precision and accuracy of the HemoCue Urine Albumin and HemoCue Albumin 201
Systems.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
HemoCue Albumin Urine Albumin and HemoCue 201 Systems
I. Device Description:

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Single (Specified) Analyte
Controls (Assayed And
Unassayed) (JJX)			Class I			21 CFR 862.1660, Quality
control material (assayed
and unassayed).			75 CLINICAL
CHEMISTRY (CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
The controls are prepared from human urine and contain other human source material.
Components of the controls which are derived from human source material have been tested
and found to be nonreactive for HBsAg, anti-HCV and HIV. Each Human Urine
Albumin control kit contains 2 bottles of controls (a 1.0 ml fill volume per bottle) with the
following target concentrations (Low and High): 25 and 75 mg/L.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate k023928
Describe the item being compared
MAS UA Control
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Levels Low and High Same
Matrix Human Albumin in human urine Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Constituents Single, Albumin Multiple, including
microalbumin, specific gravity,
pH, glucose, bilirubin, ketones,
creatinine, and protein.
Analyzer HemoCue Urine Albumin and HemoCue Multiple commercially marketed
Albumin 201 Systems analyzers
Procedures Quantitative Qualitative and Semi-
quantitative
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):

[Table 1 on page 2]
Predicate		k023928	
Describe the item being compared			
MAS UA Control			

[Table 2 on page 2]
Similarities					
Item			Device	Predicate	
Levels		Low and High		Same	
Matrix		Human Albumin in human urine		Same	

[Table 3 on page 2]
Differences					
Item			Device	Predicate	
Constituents		Single, Albumin		Multiple, including
microalbumin, specific gravity,
pH, glucose, bilirubin, ketones,
creatinine, and protein.	
Analyzer		HemoCue Urine Albumin and HemoCue
Albumin 201 Systems		Multiple commercially marketed
analyzers	
Procedures		Quantitative		Qualitative and Semi-
quantitative	

--- Page 3 ---
The AlbuTrol Low and High controls are prepared from human urine and contain
other human source material. The values are assigned from replicate analysis on the
factory-calibrated HemoCue Urine Albumin and HemoCue Albumin 201 Systems.
Below is information from a representative lot of Albutrol Low and High Controls
on the two systems.
HemoCue Urine Albumin system: Low 25 ± 9 mg/L and High 72 ± 23 mg/L
HemoCue Albumin 201 system: Low 25 ± 9 mg/L and High 75 ± 23 mg/L
Opened Vial Stability:
The AlbuTrol Controls are stable for 30 days after opening when stored at 2 to 8ºC.
Protocols and acceptance criteria for stability testing were described and found to be
acceptable.
Unopened Vial Stability:
The AlbuTrol Controls are stable for 9 months when stored at 2 to 8ºC. Protocols
and acceptance criteria for stability testing were described and found to be
acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:

--- Page 4 ---
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.