
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k060364
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Not applicable (devices may be used to collect blood samples for many different
assays)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Teco Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Teco Diagnostics Vacu Lab Plain Tube
Teco Diagnostics Vacu Lab Gel and Clot Activator Tube
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1675
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JKA
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
75 (Clinical Chemistry)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Vacu Lab Plain Tube is a sterile, plastic, evacuated blood collection tube with
a silica clot activator that provides a means of collecting, transporting, separating,
and processing blood in a closed tube. The specimens are used for clinical
laboratory assays involving the use of patient serum.
The Vacu Lab Gel & Clot Activator Tube is a sterile, plastic, evacuated blood
collection tube with a silica clot activator and a barrier gel that provides a means
of collecting, transporting, separating, and processing blood in a closed tube. The
specimens are used for clinical laboratory assays involving the use of patient
serum.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Refer to intended use above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use only.
These blood collection tubes are not intended to be used to collect blood
specimens for therapeutic drug monitoring.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The Teco Diagnostics Vacu Lab Plain Tube is a sterile, plastic, evacuated blood
collection tube. It consists of a closure assembly, a silica clot activator, and a
silicone surfactant coated on the inside of the plastic tube. The Teco Diagnostics
Vacu Lab Gel and Clot Activator Tube is identical to the Plain Tube except for
the addition of a barrier gel that separates the serum from the cells when
centrifuged.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
BD Vacutainer Plus SST Serum Separator Tube
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k023075
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Plain Tube Gel Separator Tube Predicate
closure assembly,
inert polyester gel
Same, except no gel barrier, silica clot
Components Same
barrier activator, silicone
surfactant coated
plastic tube
Matrix Same Same Serum
General Clinical
Analytes Same Same
Chemistry Analytes
Differences
Item Plain Tube Gel Separator Tube Predicate
Therapeutic Drug Not intended for use Not intended for use May be used for
Monitoring (TDM) with TDM samples with TDM samples TDM samples
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI (formerly NCCLS) H18-A: Procedures for the Handling and Processing
of Blood Specimens; Approved Guideline
CLSI (formerly NCCLS) H1-A5: Evacuated Tubes and Additives for Blood
Specimen Collection, Approved Standard – Fifth Edition
CLSI (formerly NCCLS) H3-A5: Procedures for the Collection of Diagnostic Blood
Specimens by Venipuncture, Approved Standard – Fifth Edition
ANSI/AAMI/ISO 11137: Sterilization of Health Care Products - Requirements for
Validation and Routine Control - Radiation Sterilization
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities											
	Item			Plain Tube			Gel Separator Tube			Predicate	
Components			Same, except no gel
barrier			Same			closure assembly,
inert polyester gel
barrier, silica clot
activator, silicone
surfactant coated
plastic tube		
Matrix			Same			Same			Serum		
Analytes			Same			Same			General Clinical
Chemistry Analytes		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences											
	Item			Plain Tube			Gel Separator Tube			Predicate	
Therapeutic Drug
Monitoring (TDM)			Not intended for use
with TDM samples			Not intended for use
with TDM samples			May be used for
TDM samples		

--- Page 4 ---
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
To demonstrate comparable performance with the predicate device, the
sponsor collected blood samples into the Plain Tube, the Gel and Clot
Activator Tube, and the predicate tube. The specimens were allowed to clot,
and the serum was removed for testing immediately after centrifugation.
Serum from the three tubes was then tested on two different analyzers for total
protein, albumin, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, AST, ALT, ALP, r-GT,
cholesterol, potassium, glucose, creatinine, calcium, chloride, creatine kinase,
hCG, magnesium, phosphorous, triglyceride, uric acid, BUN, sodium, CK-
MB, TSH, free T4, ferritin, and prolactin. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion
was that the r2 value from linear regression be ≥ 0.95. Linear regression was
performed using the predicate (independent variable) vs. the Plain Tube
(dependent variable) and the predicate (independent variable) vs. the Gel and
Clot Activator Tube (dependent variable). All of the comparisons met the
acceptance criteria.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. These blood collection tubes are for serum only.
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5