
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K061536
B. Purpose for Submission:
To add Proteus mirabilis to the Dried Gram-Negative MIC/Combo Panels for
screening and confirmatory testing for extended spectrum Beta- lactamase (ESBL)
C. Measurand:
ESBL screen with: Cefpodoxime (0.015-64 ug/mL), Ceftazidime (0.5-128 µg/mL),
and Cefotaxime (0.5-128 µg/mL)
ESBL confirmation with: Ceftazidime (0.5-128 µg/mL), Ceftazidime/clavulanic acid
(0.12/4 – 32/4 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime (0.5-128 µg/mL), Cefotaxime/clavulanic acid
(0.12/4 -32/4 µg/mL )
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative and Qualitative growth based detection
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring
Dade MicroScan Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MicroScan® Dried Gram-Negative MIC/Combo Panels
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1640 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JWY - Manual Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Systems
1

--- Page 2 ---
LRG-Instrument for Auto Reader & Interpretation of Overnight Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Systems
LTT – Panels, Test, Susceptibility, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
ESBL screen with Cefpodoxime (0.015-64 ug/mL), Ceftazidime (0.5-128
µg/mL), and Cefotaxime (0.5-128 µg/mL) for use with the MicroScan® Dried
Gram Negative MIC/Combo Panels and Dreid Gram Negative Breakpoint Combo
Panels. MicroScan® panels are designed for use in determining antimicrobial
agent susceptibility and/or identification to the species level of aerobic and
facultatively anaerobic gram-negative bacilli.
ESBL confirmation with Ceftazidime (0.5-128 µg/mL), Ceftazidime/clavulanic
acid (0.12/4 – 32/4 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime (0.5-128 µg/mL),
Cefotaxime/clavulanic acid (0.12/4 -32/4 µg/mL) for use with MicroScan® Dried
extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBLs) Confirmation Panel. The
MicroScan® ESβL plus Dried ESBL Confirmation Panel is designed for use in
the determination of antimicrobial agent susceptibility of colonies grown on solid
media of rapidly-growing gram-negative bacilli and for the detection of ESBL
production in Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumonia, and
Proteus mirabilis.
2. Indication(s) for use:
To be used in the screening of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, K.
pneumonia, and Proteus mirabilis when testing on the Dried Gram Negative MIC
Panels and for the confirmation of Extended-Spectrum Beta – Lactamase
production of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, K. pneumonia, and Proteus
mirabilis.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The Prompt® method of inoculation is an alternate method of inoculation
preparation that is supported in the methodology along with the turbidity method.
The stationary and log inoculum methods should not be used with this antibiotic.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Readings may be performed on the autoSCAN®-4 and WalkAway® Systems.
I. Device Description:
2

--- Page 3 ---
The MicroScan® Dried Gram-Negative MIC/Combo Panel contains microdilutions
of each antimicrobial agent in various concentrations with Mueller Hinton Broth and
various nutrients which are dehydrated and dried in panels. Each panel contains two
control wells: a no-growth control well (contains water only/no nutrients or broth),
and a growth control well (contains test medium without antibiotic). The panel is
rehydrated and inoculated at the same time with 0.1 ml of suspension prepared by the
turbidity method (inoculum prepared in water, then 0.1ml transferred to 25ml of
inoculum water containing pluronic-D/F-a wetting solution) for a final inoculum of 3-
7 X 105. The Prompt® method of inoculation is also recommended as an alternate
means of preparing the inoculum. The panels are incubated at 35o C in a non-CO
2
incubator for 16-20 hours and read by visual observation of growth. Panels may be
read manually, with the autoSCAN®-4 or WalkAway® Systems.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
MicroScan Dried Gram-Negative MIC/Combo Panels
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K013423 – ESBL Screen
K020037 ESBL confirmation
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predic
ate
Intended MicroScan® Dried Gram-Negative MIC panels for Same
Use screening and confirmation of ESBL
Inoculum Inoculum prepared from isolated colonies using either Same
preparation the Turbidity method or Prompt® system
Technology Growth based after 16 hours incubation Same
Results Report results as screen positive for suspected of Same
harboring an ESBL.
Confirmed ESBL producers report as resistant for all
penicillins, cephalosporins and aztreonam
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Test Proteus mirabilis Escherichia coli, Klebsiella
organism pneumonia, and K. oxytoca
Antibiotic ESBL screen with: Cefpodoxime Screen includes
(0.015-64 ug/mL), Ceftazidime (0.5- Ceftazidime, aztreonam,
128 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime (0.5- Cefpodoxime, cefotaxime
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities													
Item					Device							Predic	
												ate	
													
Intended
Use					MicroScan® Dried Gram-Negative MIC panels for
screening and confirmation of ESBL						Same		
Inoculum
preparation					Inoculum prepared from isolated colonies using either
the Turbidity method or Prompt® system						Same		
Technology					Growth based after 16 hours incubation						Same		
Results					Report results as screen positive for suspected of
harboring an ESBL.
Confirmed ESBL producers report as resistant for all
penicillins, cephalosporins and aztreonam						Same		
Differences													
	Item			Device					Predicate				
Test
organism			Proteus mirabilis					Escherichia coli, Klebsiella
pneumonia, and K. oxytoca					
Antibiotic			ESBL screen with: Cefpodoxime
(0.015-64 ug/mL), Ceftazidime (0.5-
128 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime (0.5-					Screen includes
Ceftazidime, aztreonam,
Cefpodoxime, cefotaxime					

--- Page 4 ---
128 µg/mL) or ceftriaxone
ESBL confirmation with:
Ceftazidime (0.5-128 µg/mL),
Ceftazidime/clavulanic acid (0.12/4
– 32/4 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime
(0.5-128 µg/mL),
Cefotaxime/clavulanic acid (0.12/4 -
32/4 µg/mL )
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard”.
L. Test Principle:
After incubation in a non-CO incubator for 16-20 hours, the minimum inhibitory
2
concentration (MIC) for the test organisms are read by determining the lowest
antimicrobial concentration showing inhibition of growth. The panels can be read
manually and with the autoSCAN®-4 by observing growth or no growth or with the
use of the WalkAway® instrument, which uses an optics system with growth
algorithms to directly measure organism growth.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was demonstrated using 6 P. mirabilis isolates tested at 3 sites
on 3 separate days in triplicate. The study included the testing of both the
turbidity inoculum method and Prompt® method of inoculation with readings
performed manually, with the autoSCAN®-4 and WalkAway® Systems. All
methods provided acceptable reproducibility for the screening and
confirmations methods.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Quality Control with E. coli ATCC 25922 and K. pneumoniae ATCC 700603
were tested with the expected result on most days using the Prompt® and the
turbidity method of inoculation with reading performed manually, with the
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
	128 µg/mL)
ESBL confirmation with:
Ceftazidime (0.5-128 µg/mL),
Ceftazidime/clavulanic acid (0.12/4
– 32/4 µg/mL), and Cefotaxime
(0.5-128 µg/mL),
Cefotaxime/clavulanic acid (0.12/4 -
32/4 µg/mL )	or ceftriaxone

--- Page 5 ---
autoSCAN®-4 and WalkAway® Systems. The Prompt® failed Quality
control on slightly more occasions than the turbidity method of inoculation
with the results being out of range on the resistant side of the expected result.
The method of reading made no difference in the results.
Inoculum density control: A turbidity meter was used for the turbidity
inoculation method with daily checks. The Prompt® method of inoculation
had colony counts performed periodically throughout the study to determine
the average inoculum density since there is no visual check of the inoculum
using this device. The average of the Quality Control recommended isolates
were acceptable except for one site that had an occasional colony count with
the Prompt® outside the recommended range (on the higher CFU side) for the
CLSI reference method.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical testing was performed at three sites with fresh isolates of Proteus
mirabilis supplemented with stock isolates and inoculated using the turbidity
inoculation method. A comparison of the MicroScan® Dried Gram-Negative
test panel results was made to the results from the reference broth method
conducted as recommended in the CLSI standard M7-A6 with the following
deviations from that recommendation; Pluronic-F is used as the inoculum in
the frozen reference panels. This is composed of water which contains a very
small amount (0.1) of Pluronic P104 to provide a smoother draw of liquid into
the inoculator. An internal validation study was performed that demonstrated
there was no difference with these antibiotics and P. mirabilis when this
wetting solution was used.
Of the 81 clinical isolates tested, 68 were ESBL negative of which two were
ESBL screen positive but did not confirm using the ESBL confirmatory test.
There were 13 positive results for ESBL by the reference method and these
were all screen positive and confirmed as ESBL positive using the
MicroScan® confirmatory testing for ESBL.
5

--- Page 6 ---
A challenge set consisting of 35 P. mirabilis that were previously molecular
characterized were tested at one site. Thirteen of these were ESBL positive.
These 35 were tested with both the Prompt® and the turbidity methods of
inoculation. Readings were performed manually and with both automated
methods with acceptable results.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of ESBL confirmed positive Proteus mirabilis is very low at this
time.
N. Proposed Labeling:
Quality Control testing is the same as recommended in the reference method
described by CLSI and is included in the package insert.
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6