
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061190
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Parathyroid Hormone
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, Immunoenzymatic assay
E. Applicant:
Beckman Coulter, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Access Intact PTH assay
Access Intact PTH Calibrators
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Parathyroid Class II 21 CFR 862.1545 75 Chemistry(CH)
Hormone Parathyroid
(CEW) hormone test
system.
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Calibrator Class II 21 CFR 862.1150 75 Chemistry(CH)
(JIT) Secondary
calibrator
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Parathyroid
Hormone
(CEW)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1545
Parathyroid
hormone test
system.			75 Chemistry(CH)		
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Calibrator
(JIT)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150
Secondary
calibrator			75 Chemistry(CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Access Intact PTH assay is a paramagnetic particle, chemiluminescent
immunoassay for the quantitative determination of intact parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) levels in human serum and plasma using the Access
Immunoassay Systems. It is indicated to aid in the differential diagnosis of
hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, or hypercalcemia of malignancy and
can be used intraoperatively. Assay results should be used in conjunction with
clinical data to assist the clinician in making individual patient management
decisions.
The Access Intact PTH calibrators are intended to calibrate the Access Intact PTH
assay for the quantitative determination of intact parathyroid hormone levels in
human serum and plasma using the Access Immunoassay Systems.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The Access Intact PTH and Access Intact PTH calibrator is intended to use with
the Access Immunoassay Systems.
I. Device Description:
The Access Intact PTH reagent consists of a dual chambered reagent pack
containing three ready-to-use-liquid reagents as follows:
• R1a: Paramagnetic particles coated with goat anti-PTH antibody suspended
in TRIS buffered saline with bovine serum albumin (BSA), surfactant, and
< 0.1% sodium azide.
• R1b: TRIS buffered saline with block ACE, protein (mouse, goat),
surfactant, and < 0.1% sodium azide.
• R1c: Mouse monoclonal anti-PTH alkaline phosphatase conjugate in
ACES buffered saline with BSA, surfactant, and < 0.1% sodium azide.
The Access Intact calibrator kit contains six vials of different concentrations of
synthetic Intact PTH.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Roche Elecsys Parathyroid Hormone Test System and DPC Immulite Turbo PTH
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k992680, k053533
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities for Routine Intact PTH
Item Access PTH Predicate (Roche Elecsys
PTH)
Intended Use The Access Intact PTH assay is a Immunoassay for the in
paramagnetic particle, vitro quantitative
chemiluminescent immunoassay determination of intact
for the quantitative determination parathyroid hormone in
of intact parathyroid hormone human serum and plasma
(parathyrin, PTH) levels in human for the differential diagnosis
serum and plasma using the of hypercalcemia and
Access Immunoassay Systems. hypocalcemia.
It is indicated to aid in the
differential diagnosis of
hyperparathyroidism,
hypoparathyroidism, or
hypercalcemia of malignancy and
can be used intraoperatively.
Assay results should be used in
conjunction with other clinical
data to assist the clinician in
making individual patient
management decisions.
Assay Principles The Access Intact PTH assay is a Electrochemiluminescence
two-site immunoenzymatic immunoassay employing
(“sandwich”) assay. the sandwich principle
Solid Support Paramagnetic particles coated Streptavidin coated
with goat anti-PTH. microparticles
Detection System Utilizes dioxetane-based Chemiluminescent
chemiluminescent substrate; emission
Measures light production from a
chemiluminescent reaction.
Sample types Serum and plasma Serum and plasma
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities for Routine Intact PTH				
Item	Access PTH		Predicate (Roche Elecsys	
			PTH)	
Intended Use	The Access Intact PTH assay is a
paramagnetic particle,
chemiluminescent immunoassay
for the quantitative determination
of intact parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) levels in human
serum and plasma using the
Access Immunoassay Systems.
It is indicated to aid in the
differential diagnosis of
hyperparathyroidism,
hypoparathyroidism, or
hypercalcemia of malignancy and
can be used intraoperatively.
Assay results should be used in
conjunction with other clinical
data to assist the clinician in
making individual patient
management decisions.	Immunoassay for the in
vitro quantitative
determination of intact
parathyroid hormone in
human serum and plasma
for the differential diagnosis
of hypercalcemia and
hypocalcemia.		
Assay Principles	The Access Intact PTH assay is a
two-site immunoenzymatic
(“sandwich”) assay.	Electrochemiluminescence
immunoassay employing
the sandwich principle		
Solid Support	Paramagnetic particles coated
with goat anti-PTH.	Streptavidin coated
microparticles		
Detection System	Utilizes dioxetane-based
chemiluminescent substrate;
Measures light production from a
chemiluminescent reaction.	Chemiluminescent
emission		
Sample types	Serum and plasma	Serum and plasma		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences for Routine Intact PTH
Item Access PTH Predicate (Roche Elecsys
PTH)
Calibrator Six levels (0, ~10, ~60, ~300, 2 point calibration and
~1500, and ~3500 pg/mL) of master curve provided via
synthetic PTH antigen in a the reagent barcode.
buffered protein solution with
preservatives.
Reportable range 1-3500 pg/mL 1.2-5000 pg/mL
Functional 4 pg/mL 6 pg/mL
sensitivity
Reference 12-88 pg/mL 15-65 pg/mL
intervals
Similarities for Intra-operative PTH
Item Access Intra-operative PTH Predicate (DPC Turbo
PTH-Intraoperative)
Intended Use The Access Intact PTH assay is a For in vitro diagnostic use
paramagnetic particle, with the IMMULITE and
chemiluminescent immunoassay IMMULITE 1000 analyzers-
for the quantitative determination for the quantitative
of intact parathyroid hormone measurement of intact
(parathyrin, PTH) levels in human parathyroid hormone
serum and plasma using the (parathyrin, PTH) in EDTA
Access Immunoassay Systems. plasma or serum. It is
It is indicated to aid in the intended as an aid in the
differential diagnosis of differential diagnosis of
hyperparathyroidism, hypercalcemia and
hypoparathyroidism, or hypocalcemia and can be
hypercalcemia of malignancy and used intraoperatively.
can be used intraoperatively.
Assay Principles The Access Intact PTH assay is a Solid phase,
two-site immunoenzymatic chemiluminescent
(“sandwich”) assay. immunometric assay.
Solid Support Paramagnetic particles coated Bead coated with affinity
with goat anti-PTH. purified goat polyclonal
anti-PTH (44-84) antibody.
Detection System Utilizes dioxetane-based Chemiluminescent
chemiluminescent substrate; emission.
Measures light production from a
chemiluminescent reaction.
Sample types Serum and plasma Serum and plasma
Differences for Intra-operative PTH
Item Device Predicate (DPC Turbo
PTH-Intraoperative)
Calibrator Six levels (0, ~10, ~60, ~300, Intact PTH adjustors (Low
~1500, and ~3500 pg/mL) of and High) of lyophilized
synthetic PTH antigen in a buffered synthetic human intact
protein solution with preservatives. PTH in a buffered matrix.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences for Routine Intact PTH			
Item	Access PTH	Predicate (Roche Elecsys
PTH)	
Calibrator	Six levels (0, ~10, ~60, ~300,
~1500, and ~3500 pg/mL) of
synthetic PTH antigen in a
buffered protein solution with
preservatives.	2 point calibration and
master curve provided via
the reagent barcode.	
Reportable range	1-3500 pg/mL	1.2-5000 pg/mL	
Functional
sensitivity	4 pg/mL	6 pg/mL	
Reference
intervals	12-88 pg/mL	15-65 pg/mL	

[Table 2 on page 4]
Similarities for Intra-operative PTH			
Item	Access Intra-operative PTH	Predicate (DPC Turbo
PTH-Intraoperative)	
Intended Use	The Access Intact PTH assay is a
paramagnetic particle,
chemiluminescent immunoassay
for the quantitative determination
of intact parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) levels in human
serum and plasma using the
Access Immunoassay Systems.
It is indicated to aid in the
differential diagnosis of
hyperparathyroidism,
hypoparathyroidism, or
hypercalcemia of malignancy and
can be used intraoperatively.	For in vitro diagnostic use
with the IMMULITE and
IMMULITE 1000 analyzers-
for the quantitative
measurement of intact
parathyroid hormone
(parathyrin, PTH) in EDTA
plasma or serum. It is
intended as an aid in the
differential diagnosis of
hypercalcemia and
hypocalcemia and can be
used intraoperatively.	
Assay Principles	The Access Intact PTH assay is a
two-site immunoenzymatic
(“sandwich”) assay.	Solid phase,
chemiluminescent
immunometric assay.	
Solid Support	Paramagnetic particles coated
with goat anti-PTH.	Bead coated with affinity
purified goat polyclonal
anti-PTH (44-84) antibody.	
Detection System	Utilizes dioxetane-based
chemiluminescent substrate;
Measures light production from a
chemiluminescent reaction.	Chemiluminescent
emission.	
Sample types	Serum and plasma	Serum and plasma	

[Table 3 on page 4]
Differences for Intra-operative PTH					
Item	Device	Device		Predicate (DPC Turbo	
				PTH-Intraoperative)	
Calibrator	Six levels (0, ~10, ~60, ~300,
~1500, and ~3500 pg/mL) of
synthetic PTH antigen in a buffered
protein solution with preservatives.		Intact PTH adjustors (Low
and High) of lyophilized
synthetic human intact
PTH in a buffered matrix.		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences for Intra-operative PTH
Item Device Predicate (DPC Turbo
PTH-Intraoperative)
Reportable range 6-3500 pg/mL 4-2500 pg/mL
Reference 12-88 pg/mL 8-74 pg/mL
interval
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
CSLI Guideline, EP5-A Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry
Devices
CSLI Guideline, EP7-A Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved
Guideline
Other Standards
EN ISO 17511: 2003, Metrological Traceability of Values Assigned to Calibrator and
Control Materials.
L. Test Principle:
The Access Intact PTH assay is a two-site immunoenzymatic (“sandwich”) assay. A
sample is added to a reaction vessel, along with a monoclonal anti-PTH antibody
conjugated to alkaline phosphatase, TRIS buffered saline with proteins and
paramagnetic particles coated with a goat polyclonal anti-PTH antibody. After
incubation in a reaction vessel, materials bound to the solid phase are held in a
magnetic field while unbound materials are washed away. Then, the
chemiluminescent substrate Lumi-Phos 530 is added to the vessel and light generated
by the reaction is measured with a luminometer. The light production is directly
proportional to the concentration of PTH in the sample. The amount of analyte in the
sample is determined from a stored, multi-point calibration curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision studies:
Precision was evaluated according to CLSI EP5-A protocol. The method
consisted of assaying three EDTA plasma patient samples in replicates of two,
for 20 runs in both the routine and intraoperative modes. The mean of the
replicates, standard deviation, and the percent CV for within run, between run
and total precision were determined by analysis of variance (ANOVA). The
Access Intact PTH assay exhibits total imprecision of ≤ 8% CV at
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences for Intra-operative PTH				
Item	Device		Predicate (DPC Turbo	
			PTH-Intraoperative)	
Reportable range	6-3500 pg/mL	4-2500 pg/mL		
Reference
interval	12-88 pg/mL	8-74 pg/mL		

[Table 2 on page 5]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number

--- Page 6 ---
concentrations > 12 pg/mL for the routine mode and ≤12% CV at
concentrations > 12 pg/mL for the intraoperative mode. All 3 lots of reagents
tested meet the total imprecision claim. These results meet the applicant’s
design specifications for precision of ≤ 8% CV at concentrations greater than
10 pg/mL for the routine mode and precision of ≤ 15% CV for concentrations
between 10-50 pg/mL and ≤ 10% CV for higher concentrations for the
intraoperative mode.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
For the Routine PTH mode:
Dilution recovery studies for the Access Intact PTH assay were completed
using the Access 2 platform using the routine mode. Six EDTA plasma
samples range from 356 to 3185 pg/mL were diluted using sample diluent A.
Three samples were spiked with synthetic PTH in order to obtain the high
values needed for this study. Eight dilutions were prepared for each sample
and tested in replicates of 8 for the neat sample and replicates of 4 for each
dilution. Assay range from 4.6 to 3185 pg/mL were tested and found to have a
mean % recovery ranged from 91% to 103% for the routine mode. Studies
showed that all 6 samples tested were within the design specification for slope
of 1.00 ± 0.1.
For the Intraoperative PTH mode:
Dilution recovery studies for the Access Intraoperative PTH assay were
completed using the Access 2 platform using the intraoperative mode. Six
EDTA plasma samples range from 502 to 3084 pg/mL were diluted using
sample diluent A. Three samples were spiked with synthetic PTH in order to
obtain the high values needed for this study. Eight dilutions were prepared for
each sample and tested in replicates of 8 for the neat sample and replicates of
4 for each dilution. Assay range from 6.3 to 3054 pg/mL were tested and
found to have a mean % recovery ranged from 85% to 98% for the routine
mode. Studies showed that all 6 samples tested were within the design
specification for slope of 1.00 ± 0.1.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The Access Intact PTH calibrator is traceable to the manufacturer’s working
calibrators. The average recovery of WHO standard preparation material
79/500 diluted in Sample Diluent A (Cat. No. 81908) is 57% for the Routine
Mode and 53% for the Intraoperative Mode range of the assay. The
traceability process is based on EN ISO 17511: 2003, Metrological
Traceability of Values Assigned to Calibrator and Control Materials.
Value assignments and verification processes for Access PTH calibrators are
done using an internal protocol. Access Intact PTH calibrators are used for
both the routine mode and the intraoperative mode.
6

--- Page 7 ---
Stability:
Long term (shelf life) stability of the calibrators was performed by running
controls and patient samples at time 0,1,3,6, and 9 months intervals. Stability
studies are continuing at this time. The recommended temperature storage for
lyophilized calibrators is 2-100C. The mean value for each sample at each
time period was compared to the mean value of that control on day zero and
compared to the expected range. All controls values fall into the assigned
range. Open vial (in use) stability was performed by running four samples at
time 0,1,2,4,6,8.5,25, and 50 hours intervals. Reconstituted calibrators were
stored at the recommended storage conditions of either 18-25°C or 2-10°C. At
each time point, the reconstituted calibrators were used to generate a new
calibration curve and four quality control samples were assayed in replicates
of two on an Access 2 instrument using the routine mode. The mean value for
each control level at each time period is compared to the mean value of that
control on day zero and compared to the expected range. All control values
fall into the assigned range. The data supports reconstituted calibrator open
vial stability 2 hours if stored at 18-25°C or 10 hours if stored at 2-10°C.
d. Detection limit:
The Limit of Detection determination was based on multiple measurements of
the Intact PTH calibrator, S0, on multiple instruments. The mean, SD, and %
CV were calculated. The lowest detectable level of PTH distinguishable from
zero with 95% confidence is 0.102 pg/mL for the routine mode and 0.368
pg/mL for the intraoperative mode. The applicant chose the analytical
sensitivity of 1 pg/mL for the routine mode and 6 pg/mL for the intraoperative
mode.
e. Analytical specificity:
The specificity of the PTH assay was evaluated as described in CSLI EP7-A
Guidelines. Substances tested are listed below and were found not to interfere
(< 10% bias).
7

--- Page 8 ---
Cross reactivity studies were performed and the results are as follows:
Limitations to the procedure:
The applicant states that for assays employing antibodies, the possibility exists
for interference by heterophile antibodies in the patient sample. Patients who
have been regularly exposed to animals or have received immunotherapy or
diagnostic procedures utilizing immunoglobulins or immunoglobulin
fragments may produce antibodies, e.g. HAMA, that interferes with
immunoassays. Additionally, other heterophile antibodies such as human anti-
goat antibodies may be present in patient samples. Such interfering antibodies
may cause erroneous results. The applicant recommends to carefully evaluate
the results of patients suspected of having these antibodies.
8

--- Page 9 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
NA
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device
For the Routine PTH mode: A total of 500 EDTA plasma samples were
evaluated using two different Access Immunoassay systems and Roche Elecsys
(predicate) analyzers at external and internal laboratories in Europe. Deming
regression analyses were used to evaluate the correlations between results
obtained using the Access PTH assay and the Roche Elecsys (predicate) assay.
The methods comparison analyses demonstrated acceptable agreement between
Access Intact PTH assay results and Roche Elecsys PTH assay results. All
comparisons met acceptance criteria for slope (1.0 ± 0.10) and Pearson
correlations (r ≥ 0.95). Correlation of Roche Elecsys PTH versus Access PTH
showed a regression of y = 1.0914 x -11.479, y = Access PTH, and x = Roche
Elecsys PTH. Range of observations = 16-2627 pg/mL, r = 0.99.
For the Intraoperative PTH mode: A total of 400 EDTA plasma samples were
evaluated using Access 2 system and DPC Immulite 1000 Turbo PTH
(predicate) analyzers at an external site in Europe. Deming regression
analyses were used to evaluate the correlations between results obtained using
the Access Intraoperative PTH mode and the DPC Immulite 1000 Turbo PTH
(predicate) assay. The methods comparison analyses demonstrated acceptable
agreement between Access Intact PTH assay results and DPC Immulite 1000
Turbo PTH assay results. Agreement between the predicate and Access
Intraoperative PTH assay was acceptable with the Pearson regressions of r ≥
0.95.
Correlation of Access Intraoperative PTH verses the DPC Immulite 1000
Turbo PTH showed a regression of y = 0.8695 x + 0.13, y = Access PTH, and
x = DPC Immulite 1000 Turbo PTH. Range of observations = 8-2453 pg/mL,
r = 0.996.
b. Method comparison between the Access Intact PTH routine mode and
intraoperative mode:
A total of 493 EDTA plasma samples were evaluated using the Access Intact
PTH assay routine mode and the intraoperative mode on the Access
Immunoassay system. Deming regression analyses were used to evaluate the
correlations between results obtained using the Access PTH routine mode and
the intraoperative mode. The methods comparison analyses demonstrated
acceptable agreement between Access Intact PTH routine mode and
intraoperative mode.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Correlation of Access PTH routine mode verses the intraoperative mode
showed a regression of y = 0.94 x + 9.69, y = Access PTH intraoperative
mode, and x = Access PTH routine mode. Range of observations = 13-2848
pg/mL, r =1.00. Comparisons met acceptance criteria for slope (1.0± 0.10)
and Pearson correlations (r ≥ 0.95).
c. Matrix comparison:
A comparison study was performed using 50 matched serum and plasma
(EDTA and heparin) samples across the range with doses up to ~ 2000 pg/mL.
Samples were run as replicates of 4 on the Access system using both the
routine and intraoperative mode. For statistical analysis, a linear regression
including the slope, intercept, and correlation coefficient were calculated. The
slope differences met the sponsor’s design specification, which requires the
difference between plasma (EDTA, heparin) and serum samples to be ≤ 10%
for both the routine and intraoperative modes. Results are presented in the
tables below:
d. Method Comparison: Access Systems Cross-Platform
To verify the equivalence of the Access platform family members with respect
to the Access PTH assay, a method comparison study was performed. Ten
EDTA plasma patient samples with PTH concentrations ranged from
approximately 8 to 3000 pg/mL were tested in replicates of four, in 5 different
10

--- Page 11 ---
runs, for a period of 5 days, on each of the Access platforms in both the routine
and intraoperative modes. Below are the paired platform instruments
comparisons:
1. Access 2 vs. Access
2. UniCel DxL 800 vs. Access
3. UniCel DxL 800 vs. Access 2
The LXi Synchron 725 and UniCel DxC 600i incorporate an Access 2 system and are
represented by the Access 2 in this correlation study.
The results are shown in the table below:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
11

--- Page 12 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Pathological sample evaluation was performed by measuring Intact PTH in
apparently healthy individuals and patients with following disorders of
calcium metabolism: primary hyperparathyroidism, secondary
hyperparathyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, and hypercalcemia of malignancy.
The mean PTH result was plotted vs. the mean Calcium result for each
disorder. Results were summarized in the graph below. The results below
reflect a typical profile for the pathological samples and were in alignment
with the literature. (Marx, S. NEJM 2000:343:1863-1875, Hyperparathyroid
and Hypoparathyroid Disorders)
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
12

--- Page 13 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Reference range were established by using 289 matched human EDTA plasma
and serum samples from apparently healthy male and female subjects aged 19-67
years, samples were tested in duplicate. Results were analyzed to generate a 95%
non-parametric lower and upper reference limit for each sample type. Results are
summarized in the table below:
Access Intact PTH Reference Range Summary
Sample Type N Median Age Age Range Reference Interval
(pg/mL)
Serum 289 40 19-67 12-87
EDTA Plasma 289 40 19-67 15-88
Access Intraoperative Intact PTH Reference Range Summary
Sample Type N Median Age Age Range Reference Interval
(pg/mL)
Serum 289 40 19-67 12-94
EDTA Plasma 289 40 19-67 16-96
A non-parametric Wilcoxon signed-ranks test was used to compare the EDTA
plasma and serum sample populations. The 2-tailed p was 0.1719 indicating that
there is no statistically significant difference between the sample types. The
applicant chose 12-88 pg/mL to be the reference range for both serum and plasma,
and for both routine and intraoperative mode of Access Intact PTH.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
Sample Type	N	Median Age	Age Range	Reference Interval
(pg/mL)
Serum	289	40	19-67	12-87
EDTA Plasma	289	40	19-67	15-88

[Table 2 on page 13]
Sample Type	N	Median Age	Age Range	Reference Interval
(pg/mL)
Serum	289	40	19-67	12-94
EDTA Plasma	289	40	19-67	16-96