
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k061069
B. Purpose for Submission:
These are new devices.
C. Measurand:
Immunoglobulins A, G, and M
Lambda and Kappa light chains
D. Type of Test:
Immunofixation electrophoresis
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Helena Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
SPIFE® IFE-3 Pentavalent Kit
SPIFE® IFE-6 Pentavalent Kit
SPIFE® IFE-9 Pentavalent Kit
SPIFE® IFE-15 Pentavalent Kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR§ 866.5510 Immunoglobulins A, G, M, D, and E Immunological
Test System
21CFR§ 866.5550 Immunoglobulin (light chain specific) Immunological
Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
CFF Immunoelectrophoretic, Immunoglobulins (G, A, M)
DFH Kappa, Antigen, Antiserum, Control
DEH Lambda, Antigen, Antiserum, Control
4. Panel:
Immunology (82)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The SPIFE IFE Pentavalent kits are intended for the qualitative in vitro
diagnostic separation of abnormal immunoglobulins in serum using protein
electrophoresis and immunofixation on the SPIFE 2000/3000 system.
All specimens exhibiting an abnormal immunoglobin must be retested with
antibody specific antisera (G, A, M, K, L) for identification.
The test is used as an aid in screening abnormal proteins in conjunction with
clinical and other findings.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as above
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The device is for prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use in the SPIFE 2000/3000 system (k013466)
I. Device Description:
The SPIFE Pentavalent kits are designed as a screening tool for abnormal serum
immunoglobulins. There are four kits available depending on the number of
samples is to be screened per gel.
Name No. of samples screened/gel
SPIFE® IFE-3 Pentavalent Kit 9
SPIFE® IFE-6 Pentavalent Kit 18
SPIFE® IFE-9 Pentavalent Kit 27
SPIFE® IFE-15 Pentavalent Kit 45
Each kit is comprised of the following:
• SPIFE gels containing agarose in tris-barbital/MOPS buffer with a
stabilizer. Ready to Use
• Acid Violet Stain to be dissolved in 1 liter of 10% acetic acid.
• Citric Acid Destain, containing 0.3% (w/v) acetic acid after dissolution.
• Tris-buffered Saline, containing a Tris base with Tris HCl and NaCl.
• SPIFE IFE Protein Fixative which contains 4.0% sulfosalicylic acid,
6.7% trichloroacetic acid, and 0.002% gluteraldehyde and 1.7%
guanidine HCl.
• Pooled antisera to human immunoglobulins heavy chains, IgG. IgA,
IgM, and to human light chains, Kappa and Lambda both free and
bound. The antisera have been prepared in goat and contain a stabilizer
and a preservative.
The Titan Gel Immunofix controls sold separately are recommended.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
SPIFE IFE-6
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k973040
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
SPIFE Pentavalent kits SPIFE Ife kits
Intended Use Screening device for Same
abnormal serum
immunoglobulins using
electrophoresis and
immunofixation
Methodology Immunofixation through Same
precipitin formation
following protein
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			SPIFE Pentavalent kits			SPIFE Ife kits		
Intended Use			Screening device for
abnormal serum
immunoglobulins using
electrophoresis and
immunofixation			Same		
Methodology			Immunofixation through
precipitin formation
following protein			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
separation by
electrophoresis
Instrumentation SPIFE 2000/3000 Same
Storage conditions Refrigerate at 2-8oC until Same
expired
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample type Serum only Serum or urine
Antisera Pentavalent antisera Monospecific antisera G,
pooled G, A, M, K, L A, M, K and L
Protein fixative 4.0% sulfosalicylic 2.5% sulfosalicylic acid,
formulation acid, 6.7% 1.0% trichloroacetic acid,
trichloroacetic acid, and 0.25% gluteraldehyde
and 0.002% and no guanidine HCl
gluteraldehyde and
1.7% guanidine HCl.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Immunofixation electrophoresis (IFE) is a two stage procedure using agarose
gel high resolution electrophoresis in the first stage and immunoprecipitation in
the second. In the second stage, the soluble antigen and antibody are allowed to
react. The resultant antigen-antibody complex(es) may become insoluble (as
long as the antibody is in slight excess or near equivalency) and precipitate.
The precipitation rate depends on the proportion of the reactants, temperature,
salt concentration and the pH of the solution. After immunofixation, the slide is
washed to remove any excess soluble proteins. The separated complexes are
then stained to visualize the bands.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
An abnormal control was run in replicate on each of 4 gel types. The
abnormal control contains an IgM Kappa.
Visual examination indicated the precision is 100% positive with total
agreement on each plate size. No false negative or positive were
observed.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or
methods)
No information was provided for traceability.
The antisera is stable until expiration date indicated on the vial when
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			separation by
electrophoresis					
Instrumentation			SPIFE 2000/3000			Same		
Storage conditions			Refrigerate at 2-8oC until
expired			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample type			Serum only			Serum or urine		
Antisera			Pentavalent antisera
pooled G, A, M, K, L			Monospecific antisera G,
A, M, K and L		
Protein fixative
formulation			4.0% sulfosalicylic
acid, 6.7%
trichloroacetic acid,
and 0.002%
gluteraldehyde and
1.7% guanidine HCl.			2.5% sulfosalicylic acid,
1.0% trichloroacetic acid,
and 0.25% gluteraldehyde
and no guanidine HCl		

--- Page 4 ---
stored at 2-8°C
d. Detection limit:
The smallest amount of monoclonal bands detectable with the
Pentavalent system was determined. Three known samples, IgG kappa
(3500 mg/dL), IgA kappa (1800 mg/dL), and IgM lambda (6500 mg/dL)
were used. Serial dilutions were prepared and samples were easily seen
through the twelfth dilution (1:2048) giving detection limit as follows:
IgG and kappa = 1.7 mg/dL
IgM and kappa = 0.9 mg/dL
IgA and lambda = 3.2 mg/dL
e. Analytical specificity:
Since the Pentavalent antisera appear to capture only the gamma region,
the sponsor was asked to explain how the antisera can routinely detect
an IgA and M protein which could migrate in the Beta region. Two
properly labeled examples were submitted to show bands in the Beta
region. Since the antisera cover the entire pattern area, it will react with
appropriate bands in any region of the pattern.
No data was submitted for Interference study. A statement has been
added to the Limitations section of the package insert to indicate that
testing had not been done for cross-reacting and interference substances.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not provided.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Sixty serum samples, 15 normal and 45 abnormal, were run with the
Pentavalent Antisera kit and the predicate device SPIFE kits. The
samples are provided to Helena Labs from hospital labs with no patient
demographics. The abnormal specimens demonstrated monoclonal and
polyclonal patterns with both methods whereas the normal specimens
were exclusively polyclonal. All of the specimens screened with the
Pentavalent Antisera and determined positive were then identified with
the G, A, M, K and L monospecific antisera in the SPIFE kits. The
device demonstrated 100% agreement with the predicate device in
identifying band patterns.
Artifacts were observed in the 15 normal patient, samples 4 through 15
in the P9 slide and samples 1, 2, 4, and 7 in P6 slide.
The sponsor claimed these bands are split beta or an application
phenomenon that occurs at the application site.
It does not interfere with pattern interpretation.
This information was in the interpretation section of the package insert
b. Matrix comparison:
Serum is the only recommended matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Normal samples do not contain monoclonal components.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part
809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and
supports a substantial equivalence decision.
5