
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061503
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification of an existing product
C. Measurand:
Cyclosporine
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension® Extended Range Cyclosporine Calibrator (DC108A)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
DLJ, Calibrators, Class II 21 CFR §862.3200 Toxicology
Drug specific Clinical Toxicology
Calibrator
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Dimension® CSAE Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator is an in vitro
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
DLJ, Calibrators,
Drug specific			Class II			21 CFR §862.3200
Clinical Toxicology
Calibrator			Toxicology		

--- Page 2 ---
diagnostic product intended to be used to calibrate the CSAE Cyclosporine
Extended range method for the Dimension® clinical chemistry system and the
Syva® Emit® 2000 Cyclosporine assay.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
None
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable to a calibrator
I. Device Description:
The Dimension® CSAE Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator contains
cyclosporine in a preserved whole blood hemolysate. The kit consists of 2 sets of the
following: one glass vial of sample diluent (0.0 ng/ml of cyclosporine ) and one glass
vial of levels 1 through 5. Target concentrations for the five calibrator levels are
approximately 200, 400, 800, 1400 and 2000 ng/ml of cyclosporine. Level 0 is
included for dilution of over-range samples (>2000 ng/mL) in order to obtain results
within the assay range; it is not used in calibration. Levels 1 thru 5 are used for
calibration of the CSAE method.
Human Source Material was tested by FDA approved methods for the presence of
antibodies to Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) and Type 2 (HIV-2),
as well as for Hepatitis B Surface Antigen and antibody to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV),
and found to be negative (not repeatedly reactive.)
A. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate device name(s):
Dimension Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator (DC108)
Predicate K number(s):
k052015, k053108
Comparison with predicate:
The Dimension CSAE Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator (DC108A) is
identical to the predicate in the following ways: intended use, matrix, and target
concentrations of calibrators. This device is different to the predicate in the following
ways:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Traceability Reference lot stock Reference lot stock
solution prepared solution tested by
gravimetrically. Final LC/MS/MS
reference lot sent out internally then
for LC/MS/MS formulated. Final
assignment. reference lot sent out
for LC/MS/MS
assignment.
Value Assignment of Stock solution for Stock solution for
new calibrator lot new calibrator new calibrator
formulated using formulated using
standard gravimetric standard gravimetric
procedures prior to procedures and tested
formulation. by LC/MS/MS prior
to formulation.
Production site Calibrator Calibrator prepared
manufactured by by an OEM
Dade Behring Inc. in Manufacturer for
Glasgow Delaware. Dade Behring Inc.
Packaging Glass vials. Plastic vials.
Storage temperature Unopened storage Unopened storage
temperature is -15 to temperature is -17 to
-25°C. -27°C.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Medical Devices - Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labeling and
information to be supplied (15223)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Continuous Quality Improvement: Essential Management Approaches; Approved
Guideline (GP 22-A)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences							
	Item			Device			Predicate
Traceability			Reference lot stock
solution prepared
gravimetrically. Final
reference lot sent out
for LC/MS/MS
assignment.			Reference lot stock
solution tested by
LC/MS/MS
internally then
formulated. Final
reference lot sent out
for LC/MS/MS
assignment.	
Value Assignment of
new calibrator lot			Stock solution for
new calibrator
formulated using
standard gravimetric
procedures prior to
formulation.			Stock solution for
new calibrator
formulated using
standard gravimetric
procedures and tested
by LC/MS/MS prior
to formulation.	
Production site			Calibrator
manufactured by
Dade Behring Inc. in
Glasgow Delaware.			Calibrator prepared
by an OEM
Manufacturer for
Dade Behring Inc.	
Packaging			Glass vials.			Plastic vials.	
Storage temperature			Unopened storage
temperature is -15 to
-25°C.			Unopened storage
temperature is -17 to
-27°C.	

[Table 2 on page 3]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Medical Devices - Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labeling and
information to be supplied (15223)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Continuous Quality Improvement: Essential Management Approaches; Approved
Guideline (GP 22-A)

--- Page 4 ---
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use
Class II Special Controls
Guidance Document: http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/guidance/1380.html
Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus OIVD DCTD
Assays; Guidance for Industry
and FDA
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability:
Target shelf life for the Dimension® CSAE Calibrator (DC108A) is 12 months.
Calibrator shelf life is determined by comparing results of the product stored at -
15 to -25°C (recommended storage temperature) with product stored at -70°C
(reference storage temperature) to ensure that analytical system drift is dissociated
with calibrator drift. Three lots of product were tested on days 0, 7, 14, 30, 90,
120, 150, 180, 210, 240, 270, 300, 330, 360, 390.
Traceability:
Commercially available CSA powder is used to formulate a reference stock
solution. A reference lot is formulated by diluting the stock into whole blood
hemolysate with preservatives at six different levels and stored -70º C. The
reference lot value is assigned by LC/MS/MS.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use			http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
			
Class II Special Controls
Guidance Document:
Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus
Assays; Guidance for Industry
and FDA	OIVD	DCTD	http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/guidance/1380.html
			

--- Page 5 ---
Value Assignment:
A cyclosporine stock solution is prepared using standard gravimetric procedure.
Aliquots of the stock solution are added to measured amounts of calibrator matrix
to yield the desired concentration for each calibrator level. Cyclosporine
calibrators are prepared in preserved whole blood hemolysate. The recovery of the
six levels are verified versus a control calibrator lot (control calibrator = any
approved calibrator lot) and versus the frozen reference lot.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
5

--- Page 6 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6