
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061885
B. Purpose for Submission:
510(k) premarket notification package to manufacture and market the Dimension
Vista™ System Total Triiodothyronine Calibrator (T3CAL-KC250).
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Total Triiodothyronine (T3)
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring, inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ System Total Triiodothyronine Calibrator (T3CAL-KC250).
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.1150 – Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
Calibrator, Secondary (JIT)
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The T3 CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of Total
Triiodothyronine (T3) method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista™ System
I. Device Description:
The T3 CAL is a liquid, human serum based product containing L-triiodothyronine.
The kit consists of six vials, three vials of Calibrator A (2.0 mL per vial) and three
vials of Calibrator B (1.5 mL per vial). T3 CAL is ready for use, no preparation is
required.
All human source materials were tested by FDA approved methods and found to be
negative for antibodies to HIV-1/2, HbsAg, and HCV.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® Total Triiodothyronine Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k032697
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Dimension Vista™ System Total Dimension® Total
Triiodothyronine Calibrator Triiodothyronine
(T3CAL-KC250) Calibrator
Traceability Traceable to United States Traceable to United
Pharmacopeia (USP) L- States Pharmacopeia
triiodothyronine (USP Catalog (USP) L-triiodothyronine
#36800). (USP Catalog #36800).
Form/Matrix Liquid stripped human serum Liquid stripped human
based. serum based.
Differences
Item Dimension Vista™ System Total Dimension® Total
Triiodothyronine Calibrator Triiodothyronine
(T3CAL-KC250) Calibrator
Intended use The T3 CAL is an in vitro The Dimension@ Total
diagnostic product for the Triiodothyronine (T3)
calibration of Calibrator (RC4 14)
Total Triiodothyronine (T3) is intended for use in the
method on the Dimension Vista™ calibration of the Total
System. Triiodothyronine (T3)
method on the
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system with
the Heterogeneous
Immunoassay Module.
Levels Two levels Five levels
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CEN 13640, Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
ISO 14971:2000, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical
devices
FDA Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators; Final
FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels and in
Labeling of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional Use
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Dimension Vista™ System Total			Dimension® Total	
		Triiodothyronine Calibrator			Triiodothyronine	
		(T3CAL-KC250)			Calibrator	
Traceability	Traceable to United States
Pharmacopeia (USP) L-
triiodothyronine (USP Catalog
#36800).			Traceable to United
States Pharmacopeia
(USP) L-triiodothyronine
(USP Catalog #36800).		
Form/Matrix	Liquid stripped human serum
based.			Liquid stripped human
serum based.		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
Item		Dimension Vista™ System Total			Dimension® Total	
		Triiodothyronine Calibrator			Triiodothyronine	
		(T3CAL-KC250)			Calibrator	
Intended use	The T3 CAL is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the
calibration of
Total Triiodothyronine (T3)
method on the Dimension Vista™
System.			The Dimension@ Total
Triiodothyronine (T3)
Calibrator (RC4 14)
is intended for use in the
calibration of the Total
Triiodothyronine (T3)
method on the
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system with
the Heterogeneous
Immunoassay Module.		
Levels	Two levels			Five levels		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The assigned values of the calibrators are traceable to United States
Pharmacopeia (USP) L-triiodothyronine (USP Catalog #36800).
Value Assignment
The master pool is manufactured by weighing USP T3 into stripped human
serum at five levels. The master pool bottle values are assigned by calibration
with a previous master pool using multiple replicates on multiple instruments.
The commercial calibrators are manufactured by weighing purified T3 into
stripped human serum at two levels. Bottle values are assigned by calibration
with the master pool using multiple replicates on multiple instruments.
Stability
Protocols and acceptance criteria were described and found to be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5