
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K061392
B. Purpose for Submission:
Original 510(k).
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Ikonisys, Inc. Ikoniscope™ fastFISH™ Auto/Amniocyte Test System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH Auto/Amniocyte Test System detects amniotic cells stained
by FISH using commercially available direct labeled DNA probes or chromosomes
X, Y, 13, 18, and 21.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH Auto/Amniocyte Test System is an automated scanning
microscope system incorporating automated slide loading and handling, low and
high magnification scanning to identify targets of interest and digital image
acquisition, coupled with an image analysis workstation. Microscope slides,
prepared according to the DNA probe manufacturers’ specifications, are placed
into a multiple slide cassette, and loaded into the Ikoniscope fastFISH
Auto/Amniocyte test system. The system unloads each slide, scans each one, and
returns it to the cassette automatically. During scanning, images of cells
exhibiting the predetermined characteristics for FISH signals are digitally
photographed and stored. After all the slides are scanned, the workstation
provides a summary of the FISH signals detected for each chromosome of interest
and an image gallery that displays the image of each cell nucleus meeting
predetermined characteristics and quantity. The operator/reader can then evaluate
the condition of the cells and make the diagnostic determination accordingly.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Ikonisys fastFISH Auto/Amniocyte Test System combines elements of
existing technologies to perform its function. Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization
(FISH) uses commercially available DNA probes (not supplied with the test
1

--- Page 2 ---
system) for marking chromosomes 13, 18, 12, X and Y. Automated cell
locating/counting uses pattern recognition algorithms to identify the signal
characteristics of interest. The Ikoniscope software automatically captures several
sets of images of each nucleus containing FISH signals and stores its location on
the slide. These images are then presented to the operator, using a computer
workstation for analysis.
3. Modes of Operation:
N/A
4. Specimen Identification:
Barcode
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
6. Calibration:
Calibration of the Ikoniscope is done at the time of installation by Ikonisys.
7. Quality Control:
ProbeChek® quality control slides by Abbott should be used with AneuVysion®
probes as recommended by the probe manufacturer.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X___ or No________ Comprehensive software documentation at a
Moderate Level of Concern was provided.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5260, Automated cell-locating device
2. Classification:
Class II
2

--- Page 3 ---
3 Product code:
JOY
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Ikoniscope fastFISH™ Auto/Amniocyte Test System is an automated
scanning microscope coupled with image analysis, acquistition and display
functions. It is intended for in-vitro diagnosis as an aide to the technologist or
pathologist in the detection, classification and enumeration of cells of interest
based on particular characteristics, such as intensity, size, shape, or fluorescence.
Following fully automated scanning, the system produces a summary report of the
frequency of FISH signals detected from each chromosome of interest as a basis
for the diagnostic conclusion. The system also provides images of all nuclei
scanned for review by the medical professional to confirm the diagnostic
conclusion.The Ikoniscope™ Auto/Amniocyte Test System is intended to detect
amniotic cells stained by FISH using commercially available direct labeled DNA
probes or chromosomes X, Y, 13, 18, and 21.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
N/A
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Ikoniscope fastFISH™ Amnio Test System (K052577)
BioView, Inc., Duet™ System (K001420)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Functional and Automated epi- fastFISH Auto: Same
Operational Basis fluorescent microscopy
with monochrome digital
image capture of wave-
length specific
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Functional and
Operational Basis			Automated epi-
fluorescent microscopy
with monochrome digital
image capture of wave-
length specific			fastFISH Auto: Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
fluorescent signals.
Illumination: Halogen Lamp fastFISH Amnio: Same
Duet System: Same
Basic Components: • Automated slide fastFISH Amnio: Same
loading; Duet System: Same
• Automated
microscope;
• Camera;
• PC;
• Keyboard and
control panel;
• Color monitor;
• Color printer for
reports.
Microscope Objectives: fastFish Amnio: Same
10X, 100X
Duet System: 10X, 40X
Cells Targeted: fastFISH Amnio: Same
Amniocytes
Duet System: Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Functional and Automated epi- Duet System: Automated
Operational Basis: fluorescent microscopy microscopy in bright-
with monochrome digital fields and fluorescent
image capture of wave- illumination with color
length specific digital image capture of
color specific fluorescent
signals.
Camera: Monochrome, Digital Duet System: Color,
Digital
Scanning Output: Summary of FISH signals fastFISH Amnio: Gallery
detected. Gallery of of nuclei images for
nuclei images for professional review.
professional review. Duet System: Gallery of
nuclei images for
professional review.
Clinical Trial: 262 slides for 131 fastFISH Amnio: 124
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Illumination:
Basic Components:
Microscope Objectives:
Cells Targeted:			fluorescent signals.
Halogen Lamp
• Automated slide
loading;
• Automated
microscope;
• Camera;
• PC;
• Keyboard and
control panel;
• Color monitor;
• Color printer for
reports.
10X, 100X
Amniocytes			fastFISH Amnio: Same
Duet System: Same
fastFISH Amnio: Same
Duet System: Same
fastFish Amnio: Same
Duet System: 10X, 40X
fastFISH Amnio: Same
Duet System: Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Functional and
Operational Basis:
Camera:
Scanning Output:
Clinical Trial:			Automated epi-
fluorescent microscopy
with monochrome digital
image capture of wave-
length specific
Monochrome, Digital
Summary of FISH signals
detected. Gallery of
nuclei images for
professional review.
262 slides for 131			Duet System: Automated
microscopy in bright-
fields and fluorescent
illumination with color
digital image capture of
color specific fluorescent
signals.
Duet System: Color,
Digital
fastFISH Amnio: Gallery
of nuclei images for
professional review.
Duet System: Gallery of
nuclei images for
professional review.
fastFISH Amnio: 124		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
patients slides for 62 patients.
Duet System: 133 Slides
for 68 patients.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
The purpose of the four-center study was to provide evidence to establish the
equivalence of the fastFISH Auto/Amniocyte Test System against scanning by
conventional means in the examination of amniocyte slides prepared using
FISH. The study included 262 slides from 131 patients. Amniocytes were
obtained by amniocentesis from pregnant females scheduled for invasive
sampling for karyotyping unrelated to participation in this study.
Results: A diagnostic outcome was reported for 125 of 131 (95%) samples in
the test arm of the trial and in 131 of 131 of the samples in the
standard/control arm. In the investigational device arm a fully-automated
diagnostic outcome was produced for 100 samples (76%) and following
review for the remaining 25 samples (19%). Of those samples for which a
fully-automated result was obtained, 15 required re-scanning, per the protocol.
Diagnostic conclusions determined by the investigational and standard FISH
analysis for all 125 samples for which both results were available, was
identical for all of the chromosomes examined (X, Y, 13, 18, and 21). The
concordance rate for this trial was 100% for those samples for which a
comparison was possible.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
The purpose of the study was to demonstrate the reproducibility of results
using the Ikoniscope fastFISH Auto/Amniocyte Test System between
systems, operators, and days of operation. All samples were processed and
evaluated in a blind fashion. A total of 100 slides were selected from the
comparison study.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			patients			slides for 62 patients.
Duet System: 133 Slides
for 68 patients.		

--- Page 6 ---
Results: All slides provided an automated diagnostic outcome and none
returned a “review required” outcome. Of the 100 slides, 60 were CEP
(Centromeric Probes) and 40 were LSI (Locus specific Probes) slides. All of
the CEP slides produced a result for chromosomes X, Y, and 18 based upon
50 nuclei. For the LSI slides, 36 (90%) produced an automated diagnostic
outcome based upon 50 nuclei, while in 4 (10%) of LSI slides the diagnostic
result was based upon fewer than 50 nuclei, according to the analysis
algorithm. This compares to 7% of LSI slides analyzed in the comparison
study. This slight increase, which is not statistically significant, could be
related to the fact that these slides had been previously scanned possibly
resulting in some bleaching of the LSI fluorophores. There was 100%
diagnostic concordance for each chromosome (X, Y, 13, 18, and 21).
c. Linearity:
N/A
d. Carryover:
N/A
e. Interfering Substances:
N/A
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
N/A
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

--- Page 7 ---
7