
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061702
B. Purpose for Submission:
510(k) premarket notification package to manufacture and market the Dimension
Vista™ System CK Calibrator
C. Measurand:
Creatine Kinase (CK)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ System CK Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.1150 - Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
Calibrator, Secondary (JIT)
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The CK CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of creatine
kinase (CK) method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The CK CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of creatine
kinase (CK) method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension VistaTM Integrated System
I. Device Description:
Creatine Kinase Calibrator is a frozen liquid, bovine serum albumin based product
containing creatine kinase from porcine heart. The kit consists of six vials, three vials
of Calibrator A, and three vials of Calibrator B. The volume per vial is 1.0 mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® Creatine Kinase Verifier
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k861700
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use To be used with CK assays. To be used with CK assays.
Traceability Traceable to CK Masterpool, Traceable to CK Masterpool,
Dimension® clinical Dimension® clinical
chemistry system values. chemistry system values.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			To be used with CK assays.			To be used with CK assays.		
Traceability			Traceable to CK Masterpool,
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system values.			Traceable to CK Masterpool,
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system values.		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The CK CAL is an in vitro The Dimension® Creatine
diagnostic product for the Kinase Verifier is an in vitro
calibration of creatine kinase diagnostic product to be used
(CK) method on the to verify the Dimension®
Dimension Vista™ System. clinical chemistry system for
the Creatine Kinase (CK)
method.
Form Liquid Lyophilized
Base Bovine serum albumin based Human serum base product
product containing creatine containing creatine kinase
kinase from porcine heart. from simian heart.
Levels Two Levels Three Levels
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CEN 13640, Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
ISO 14971:2000, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical
devices
FDA Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators; Final
FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels and in
Labeling of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional Use
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The CK CAL is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the
calibration of creatine kinase
(CK) method on the
Dimension Vista™ System.			The Dimension® Creatine
Kinase Verifier is an in vitro
diagnostic product to be used
to verify the Dimension®
clinical chemistry system for
the Creatine Kinase (CK)
method.		
Form			Liquid			Lyophilized		
Base			Bovine serum albumin based
product containing creatine
kinase from porcine heart.			Human serum base product
containing creatine kinase
from simian heart.		
Levels			Two Levels			Three Levels		

--- Page 4 ---
Traceability
The assigned values of the Creatine Kinase Calibrator are traceable to Master
Pool, Dimension® clinical chemistry system.
Value Assignment
The new calibrator Master Pool is made by gravimetrically adding quantities
of creatine kinase to bovine serum albumin base to target concentrations. The
concentrations are verified against a previously approved Master Pool lot. The
final bottle value for the Master Pool is assigned for each level by testing N =
45 replicates on multiple instruments.
A stock solution is prepared for the new commercial calibrator lot by
gravimetrically adding quantities of creatine kinase to bovine serum albumin
base to target concentrations. The stock solution is verified by comparing the
recovery of the stock solution versus the Master Pool assigned bottle values.
For the commercial calibrator lot, calculated quantities of the stock solution
are added to the bovine serum albumin base to target concentrations. The
concentration of each level is verified to be within acceptable range by using
an instrument calibrated with Master Pools. The final bottle value is assigned
to each level and verified using a released commercial lot of calibrator on
multiple instruments for N = 45 total replicates.
Stability
Target shelf life for the Dimension Vista™ Creatine Kinase Calibrator is 12
months. Calibrator shelf life is determined by comparing results of the product
stored at -20°C with control stored at -70°C. The method is calibrated from
this stored material. The -20°C material values are recovered versus the
calibration. Recovery versus time is monitored and percent change over time
is determined where the allowable shelf life percent change should be ≤ 5 %.
Shelf-life stability (expiration) dating assignment at commercialization
reflects the real-time data on file at Dade Behring, Inc.
A vial punctured by the instrument and stored on board is stable for seven
days. An open vial not on instrument, but recapped and stored in a refrigerator
is stable for 30 days. For testing, vials are opened /punctured on day zero. A
quantity sufficient for multiple calibrations is removed and the vials are
recapped and stored at 2 – 8 °C. Opened/punctured vials are tested on days 1,
8, 15, 22, and 32 versus freshly opened vials.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5