
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K061496
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 antigens
D. Type of Test:
Immunochromatographic rapid assay
E. Applicant:
SA Scientific, Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
SAS™ Legionella Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21CFR 866.3300, Haemophilus spp. Serological Reagents
2. Classification: Class: II
3. Product code: MJH: Legionella, spp., ELISA
4. Panel: 83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
The SAS™ Legionella Test is a visually read, in vitro immunochromatographic rapid
assay for the presumptive qualitative detection of Legionella pneumophila serogroup
1 antigens in human urine. This test is intended to aid in the presumptive diagnosis of
Legionnaires’ disease in conjunction with culture and other methods for patients with
signs and symptoms of pneumonia.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The SAS™ Legionella Test is a visually read, in vitro immunochromatographic rapid
assay for the presumptive qualitative detection of Legionella pneumophila serogroup
1

--- Page 2 ---
1 antigens in human urine. This test is intended to aid in the presumptive diagnosis of
Legionnaires’ disease in conjunction with culture and other methods for patients with
signs and symptoms of pneumonia.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The SAS™ Legionella test utilizes a combination of polyclonal antibodies against the
antigens of Legionella pneumophila. The SAS™ Legionella test begins with the
addition of urine to the test device. The specimen is absorbed by the sample pad and
then moves through the conjugate pad which contains dried gold conjugated
antibodies which are specific for Legionella pneumophila antigens; if the Legionella
antigens are present in the urine sample, a “half-sandwich” immunocomplex is
formed. This immuno-complex then migrates via capillary action along a
nitrocellulose membrane containing immobilized antibodies to Legionella
pneumophila antigens. The immobilized antibodies bind the “half-sandwich”
immuno-complex to form a “whole sandwich” immuno-complex. Thus, when the
“whole sandwich” is formed, a visible, pink colored line develops in the specimen
zone on the test device. In the absence of a Legionella antigen, a “sandwich”
immuno-complex is not formed and a negative result is indicated. To serve as a
procedural control, a pink colored control line will always appear in the control zone
regardless of the presence or absence of Legionella antigen. The test is in a cassette
format.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Binax™ Now® Legionella Urinary Antigen Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K982238
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Specimen Type Human urine Human urine
Method and type Qualitative Qualitative
Immunochromatography Immunochromatography
Antigen detected L. pneumophila L. pneumophila
serogroup 1 serogroup 1
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample application Direct urine Urine in swab
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
Immunochromatography
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The reproducibility of the SAS™ Legionella Test was evaluated at three
clinical laboratory sites. The SAS™ Legionella Test was tested against a
panel of six (6) specimens of which included four levels of positives and two
negatives. The low and high positives were from the purified Legionella
antigen. Negative were comprised of either urine or Legionella antigen below
the detectable limit. Three (3) different laboratory personnel assayed each
specimen at each laboratory facility over 3 days. The overall reproducibility
for the SAS™ Legionella Test was 100%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Specimen Type
Method and type
Antigen detected			Human urine
Qualitative
Immunochromatography
L. pneumophila
serogroup 1			Human urine
Qualitative
Immunochromatography
L. pneumophila
serogroup 1		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample application			Direct urine			Urine in swab		

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
The limit of detection of the SAS™ Legionella test was determined to be 5 x
104. Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1 ATCC 323152 was prepared using
BCYE agar. A dilution of the working concentration was performed. The
limit of detection of the SAS™ Legionella Cassette Test was determined from
these concentrations.
e. Analytical specificity:
Analytical Specificity: Forty-Nine (49) fresh patient urines from healthy
individuals were collected prospectively and assayed at a clinical site. One
hundred percent (100%) of these were found to be negative by the SAS™
Legionella test.
Ninety-nine (99) urines from patients diagnosed for other etiological
respiratory tract infections (84 culture confirmed, 15 suspected) were tested
using the SAS™ Legionella Test. The results showed a lack of reactivity in
98/99 samples (99.0%).
Bacterial Cross-Reactivity: To confirm the analytical specificity of the
SAS™ Legionella Test, bacterial cultures likely to be found in the respiratory
tract were tested. All yielded negative results. To confirm a lack of
interference by other bacterial species in the SAS™ Legionella Test, purified
Legionella antigen was added to bacterial cultures likely to be found in the
respiratory tract. All tests yielded positive results.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical Sensitivity and Specificity: Three clinical sites (USA and Netherlands)
tested three hundred twenty four (324) retrospective frozen specimens using the
SAS™ Legionella Cassette test. These samples were previously tested for
Legionella by cell culture.
Sensitivity: 95/105 x 100 = 90.5 % (95% CI 83.2 – 95.3%)
Specificity: 208/219 x 100 = 95.0 % (95% CI 91.2 – 97.3%)
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5