
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061588
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Homocysteine
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, homogeneous enzymatic assay
E. Applicant:
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent, VITROS Chemistry Products Calibrator
Kit 27, VITROS HCY Performance Verifiers I, II, and III
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Urinary Class II 21 CFR 862.1377, 75 Clinical
Homocysteine Urinary Chemistry (CH)
(Nonquantitative) homocysteine
Test System (LPS) (nonquantitative)
test system.
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Calibrators, Class II 21 CFR 862.1150, 75 Clinical
Secondary (JIT) Calibrator Chemistry (CH)
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Single (Specified) Class I 21 CFR 862.1660, 75 Clinical
analyte controls Quality Control Chemistry (CH)
(assayed and Material (assayed
unassayed) (JJX) and unassayed)
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Urinary
Homocysteine
(Nonquantitative)
Test System (LPS)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1377,
Urinary
homocysteine
(nonquantitative)
test system.			75 Clinical
Chemistry (CH)		
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Calibrators,
Secondary (JIT)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150,
Calibrator			75 Clinical
Chemistry (CH)		
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Single (Specified)
analyte controls
(assayed and
unassayed) (JJX)			Class I			21 CFR 862.1660,
Quality Control
Material (assayed
and unassayed)			75 Clinical
Chemistry (CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent: For in vitro diagnostic use only.
VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent is used to quantitatively measure
total homocysteine (HCY) concentration in human serum and plasma. Serum and
plasma homocysteine levels can assist in the diagnosis and treatment of patients
suspected of having hyperhomocysteinemia and homocystinuria.
VITROS Chemistry Products Calibrator Kit 27: For in vitro diagnostic use
only. VITROS Chemistry Products Calibrator Kit 27 is used to calibrate VITROS
5,1 FS Chemistry Systems for the quantitative measurement of homocysteine
(HCY).
VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Performance Verifiers I, II & III: For in
vitro diagnostic use only. VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Performance
Verifiers are assayed controls used to monitor performance of VITROS HCY
Reagents on VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The device is intended for use with the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System. The
VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System was cleared for market use in k031924.
I. Device Description:
The VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent consists of two dual chambered
reagent packs containing three ready-to-use liquid reagents. VITROS Chemistry
Products FS Diluent Pack 2 (Saline/BSA) is a common reagent that is used by
multiple assays on the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System. This is a dual chambered
package containing two ready-to-use liquid diluents. Diluent 1 is prepared from
processed water to which inorganic salt has been added. Diluent 2 is prepared from
processed water to which bovine serum albumin, inorganic salts and preservatives
have been added. Diluent 1 contains saline (154 mM NaCl), which is used to dilute
elevated homocysteine (HCY) samples on the analyzer.
VITROS Chemistry Products Calibrator Kit 27 is a two level fluid prepared from an
aqueous solution containing amino acids and inorganic acid. These standards are used
2

--- Page 3 ---
to calibrate VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems for the quantitative measurement of
homocysteine (HCY).
VITROS HCY Performance Verifiers I, II and III are prepared from processed human
serum to which amino acid and preservative have been added. These are assayed
controls used to monitor performance of VITROS HCY Reagent on VITROS 5,1 FS
Chemistry Systems.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate
k993107 Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC Test
Describe the item being compared
The Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC test is based on precolumn derivatization and a 5 minute
chromatography. The Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC test is intended for the quantitative
determination of total homocysteine in human plasma or serum.
Device Similarities
VITROS HCY (New device)
Device Characteristic
BIO-RAD HOMOCYSTEINE by HPLC test (Predicate device)
For in-vitro diagnostic use. Quantitative determination of total
Intended use
homocysteine in human serum or plasma
Analyte measured Homocysteine
Sample type Serum or Plasma
Measurement Quantitative
Device Differences
BIO-RAD
HOMOCYSTEINE by
Device Characteristics VITROS HCY (New device)
HPLC test (Predicate
device)
Reportable range 1.0 – 50.0 µmol/L 0.5 – 100 µmol/L
Sensitivity 1.0 µmol/L 0.5 µmol/L
Calibrator levels Two levels (0, 27 µmol/L) Single level (15-20 µmol/L)
Calibrator format Liquid Lyophilized
Aqueous solution containing amino
Calibrator matrix Human Serum
acids and inorganic acid
Isocratic HPLC System
Automated clinical chemistry
Instrumentation
analyzer
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Predicate						
			k993107 Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC Test			
						
Describe the item being compared						
The Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC test is based on precolumn derivatization and a 5 minute						
chromatography. The Bio-Rad Homocysteine by HPLC test is intended for the quantitative						
determination of total homocysteine in human plasma or serum.						
Device Similarities						
Device Characteristic	VITROS HCY (New device)
BIO-RAD HOMOCYSTEINE by HPLC test (Predicate device)					
Intended use	For in-vitro diagnostic use. Quantitative determination of total
homocysteine in human serum or plasma					
Analyte measured	Homocysteine					
Sample type	Serum or Plasma					
Measurement	Quantitative					
Device Differences						
Device Characteristics				BIO-RAD
HOMOCYSTEINE by
HPLC test (Predicate
device)		
						
		VITROS HCY (New device)				
						
						
Reportable range		1.0 – 50.0 µmol/L		0.5 – 100 µmol/L		
Sensitivity		1.0 µmol/L		0.5 µmol/L		
Calibrator levels		Two levels (0, 27 µmol/L)		Single level (15-20 µmol/L)		
Calibrator format		Liquid		Lyophilized		
Calibrator matrix		Aqueous solution containing amino		Human Serum		
		acids and inorganic acid				
Instrumentation				Isocratic HPLC System		
		Automated clinical chemistry				
		analyzer				
						

--- Page 4 ---
Males: 6.6 – 14.8 µmol/L
Reference Interval < 15 µmol/L
Females: 4.7 – 12.6 µmol/L
Method Homogeneous Enzymatic Chromatography
k052819 VITROS Chemistry Products AAT
Predicate
Performance Verifiers I, II, & III
Describe the item being compared
The VITROS Chemistry Products AAT Performance Verifiers I, II and III are prepared from processed human
serum to which inorganic salts, buffers, and preservatives have been added. These are assayed controls used to
monitor performance of VITROS AAT Reagent on VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems.
Device Similarities
Indications for Assayed controls used to monitor assay performance on
use VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems
Prepared from processed human serum with preservatives
Matrix
added.
Product type Assayed control
Format Liquid
Number of levels Three
Device Differences
VITROS AAT
Device VITROS HCY Performance Performance
Characteristic Verifiers (new device) Verifiers (predicate
device)
alpha 1-Antitrypsin
Analyte measure Homocysteine
(AAT)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices; Approved Guideline (EP5-A)
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)
Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved Guideline (EP09-A2)
How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory; Approved Guideline -
Second Edition (C28-A2)
Other Standards
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Reference Interval			Males: 6.6 – 14.8 µmol/L			< 15 µmol/L		
			Females: 4.7 – 12.6 µmol/L					
Method			Homogeneous Enzymatic			Chromatography		
k052819 VITROS Chemistry Products AAT
Predicate
Performance Verifiers I, II, & III
Describe the item being compared
The VITROS Chemistry Products AAT Performance Verifiers I, II and III are prepared from processed human
serum to which inorganic salts, buffers, and preservatives have been added. These are assayed controls used to
monitor performance of VITROS AAT Reagent on VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems.
Device Similarities
Indications for Assayed controls used to monitor assay performance on
use VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems
Prepared from processed human serum with preservatives
Matrix
added.
Product type Assayed control
Format Liquid
Number of levels Three
Device Differences
VITROS AAT
Device VITROS HCY Performance Performance
Characteristic Verifiers (new device) Verifiers (predicate
device)
alpha 1-Antitrypsin
Analyte measure Homocysteine
(AAT)								
Predicate								
					Performance Verifiers I, II, & III			
								
Describe the item being compared								
The VITROS Chemistry Products AAT Performance Verifiers I, II and III are prepared from processed human								
serum to which inorganic salts, buffers, and preservatives have been added. These are assayed controls used to								
monitor performance of VITROS AAT Reagent on VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems.								
Device Similarities								
Indications for
use	Assayed controls used to monitor assay performance on							
	VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems							
Matrix	Prepared from processed human serum with preservatives							
	added.							
Product type	Assayed control							
Format	Liquid							
Number of levels	Three							
Device Differences								
Device
Characteristic		VITROS HCY Performance
Verifiers (new device)		VITROS AAT				
				Performance				
				Verifiers (predicate				
				device)				
Analyte measure		Homocysteine		alpha 1-Antitrypsin				
				(AAT)				
								
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):								
STANDARDS								
Title and Reference Number								
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices; Approved Guideline (EP5-A)								
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)								
Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved Guideline (EP09-A2)								
How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory; Approved Guideline -								
Second Edition (C28-A2)								
								
Other Standards								

--- Page 5 ---
None
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division
None
L. Test Principle:
The quantitative measurement of homocysteine (HCY) is performed using the VITROS
Chemistry Products HCY Reagent in conjunction with the VITROS Chemistry Products
Calibrator Kit 27 and on the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems. The VITROS
Chemistry Products HCY Reagent consists of two dual chambered reagent packs
containing three ready-to-use liquid reagents. Disulfide linked homocysteine (oxidized
forms) in the sample is reduced by Tris (2-Carboxyethyl) phosphine hydrochloride
(TCEP) to form reduced homocysteine. Reduced homocysteine reacts with serine in the
presence of cystathionine b-synthase (CBS) to form L-cystathionine. L-cystathionine is
broken down by cystathionine b-lyase (CBL) to produce homocysteine, pyruvate and
ammonia. Pyruvate is reduced to lactate by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) using NADH as
coenzyme. The concentration of homocysteine is directly proportional to the amount of
NADH converted to NAD+ and is measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm. Once a
calibration has been performed, the homocysteine concentration in each unknown sample
can be determined using the stored calibration curve and the measured absorbance
obtained in the assay of the sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was evaluated with quality control materials and a human serum
pool on the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System following NCCLS Protocol
EP5.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
None			
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	
None			
			

--- Page 6 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The evaluation of the linearity of the VITROS HCY assay was performed
based on NCCLS EP6-A. Three lots of VITROS Chemistry Products HCY
Reagents were tested using a series of admixtures with concentrations of 0.50
µmol/L to 71.0 µmol/L. The VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent
linear range was determined to be 0.50 µmol/L to 71.0 µmol/L and the
reportable range was chosen by the applicant to be 1.0 µmol/L to 50.0
µmol/L.
An on-board dilution study of patient samples with saline was performed
using 10 samples with a dilution factor of 2 and 10 samples with a dilution
factor of 3. The recovery ranged from 96.9% to 100.0% using the dilution
factor of 2 and ranged from 92.4% to 98.5% using the dilution factor of 3.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
Both the Calibrators and Verifiers are value assigned by performing multiple
determinations using the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems and the
VITROS Chemistry Products HCY Reagent. The VITROS Chemistry
Products Calibrator Kit 27 is traceable to NIST SRM 1955.
Stability
The long term (shelf life) stability of the VITROS HCY reagents, calibrators
and verifiers were tested on a VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System using a real
time study extending at least one month beyond the selected expiration date.
Testing was done at intervals of 0, 1, 2, 3 months and is still ongoing. The
6

--- Page 7 ---
VITROS HCY reagents, calibrators and verifiers are stored at refrigerated (2-
8oC).
The opened vial (in use) stability of the VITROS HCY reagents, calibrators
and verifiers were tested on a VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System. Testing was
done at intervals of 0, 7, 14 days and is still ongoing.
d. Detection limit:
The LOB specimen tested was a homocysteine-free serum pool obtained from
Golden West Biologics Inc, Temecula, CA. The LOD specimen tested was
consisted of two homocysteine serum pools spiked with homocysteine to
nominal concentrations of 0.01 and 0.48 µmol/L. The Limit of Blank (LOB),
Limit of Detection (LOD), and Limit of Quantitation (LOQ) were determined
following NCCLS EP17-A. The lower linear range of the VITROS HCY
assay was determined to be 0.5 µmol/L based on the results of the linearity
evaluation. The value that will be the claimed analytical limit (reportable
range) at low levels is 1.0 µmol/L based on linearity, LOB, LOD, and LOQ
evaluations.
e. Analytical specificity:
The specificity of the VITROS HCY reagent was evaluated by testing the
following substances at homocysteine concentrations of approximately 15.0 to
38.0 µmol/L using protocols based on NCCLS Protocol EP7-A and found not
to interfere, bias <13.6%, at the concentrations shown below.
Compound Concentration
Acetaminophen 20 mg/dL Acetaminophen
N-Acetyl L- N-Acetyl L-
Cysteine 326 µg/L Cysteine
Adenosine 6.7 g/dL Adenosine
Amoxicillin 20 µg/mL Amoxicillin
100
Ampicillin mg/dL Ampicillin
Ascorbic Acid (L) 10 mg/dL Ascorbic Acid (L)
Aspirin 50 mg/dL Aspirin
300
Atorvastatin ng/mL Atorvastatin
Bilirubin 30 mg/dL Bilirubin
Caffeine 10 mg/dL Caffeine
Clopidogrel Clopidogrel
hydrogensulfate 50 µg/mL hydrogensulfate
Creatinine 30 mg/dL Creatinine
L-Cysteine 2.4 g/dL L-Cysteine
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Compound	Concentration	
Acetaminophen	20 mg/dL	Acetaminophen
N-Acetyl L-
Cysteine	326 µg/L	N-Acetyl L-
Cysteine
Adenosine	6.7 g/dL	Adenosine
Amoxicillin	20 µg/mL	Amoxicillin
Ampicillin	100
mg/dL	Ampicillin
Ascorbic Acid (L)	10 mg/dL	Ascorbic Acid (L)
Aspirin	50 mg/dL	Aspirin
Atorvastatin	300
ng/mL	Atorvastatin
Bilirubin	30 mg/dL	Bilirubin
Caffeine	10 mg/dL	Caffeine
Clopidogrel
hydrogensulfate	50 µg/mL	Clopidogrel
hydrogensulfate
Creatinine	30 mg/dL	Creatinine
L-Cysteine	2.4 g/dL	L-Cysteine

--- Page 8 ---
Compound Concentration
Doxycyclin 5 mg/dL Doxycyclin
D-penicillamine 8 μg/mL D-penicillamine
120
Enalapril Maleate ng/mL Enalapril Maleate
Gemfibrozil 50 µg/mL Gemfibrozil
120
Gentamycin Sulfate µg/mL Gentamycin Sulfate
Glutathione 0.6 g/L Glutathione
DL-Homocysteine 0.77 DL-Homocysteine
thiolactone mg/dL thiolactone
500
Hemoglobin mg/dL Hemoglobin
Hydrochlorothiazide 2 µg/mL Hydrochlorothiazide
Ibuprofen 40 mg/dL Ibuprofen
500
Intralipid mg/dL Intralipid
29.8
L-Methionine mg/dL L-Methionine
S-(5.-Adenosyl)-L- S-(5.-Adenosyl)-L-
Methionine p- 79.9 Methionine p-
toluene sulfonate mg/dL toluene sulfonate
Metronidazole 20 mg/dL Metronidazole
Nicotine 2 mg/dL Nicotine
200
Nifedipine ng/mL Nifedipine
100
Procainamide μg/mL Procainamide
Propanolol 5 µg/mL Propanolol
Protein (Serum) 9.3 g/dL Protein (Serum)
17.6
Pyruvic Acid mg/dL Pyruvic Acid
373
Rheumatoid Factor IU/mL Rheumatoid Factor
250
Theophylline µg/mL Theophylline
908
Triglycerides mg/dL Triglycerides
500
Urea mg/dL Urea
Warfarin 10 µg/mL Warfarin
Known Interferences
• Patient samples containing cystathionine (reference interval: 0.065 to 0.301
µmol/L) show positive equimolar interference with the VITROS Chemistry
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Compound	Concentration	
Doxycyclin	5 mg/dL	Doxycyclin
D-penicillamine	8 μg/mL	D-penicillamine
Enalapril Maleate	120
ng/mL	Enalapril Maleate
Gemfibrozil	50 µg/mL	Gemfibrozil
Gentamycin Sulfate	120
µg/mL	Gentamycin Sulfate
Glutathione	0.6 g/L	Glutathione
DL-Homocysteine
thiolactone	0.77
mg/dL	DL-Homocysteine
thiolactone
Hemoglobin	500
mg/dL	Hemoglobin
Hydrochlorothiazide	2 µg/mL	Hydrochlorothiazide
Ibuprofen	40 mg/dL	Ibuprofen
Intralipid	500
mg/dL	Intralipid
L-Methionine	29.8
mg/dL	L-Methionine
S-(5.-Adenosyl)-L-
Methionine p-
toluene sulfonate	79.9
mg/dL	S-(5.-Adenosyl)-L-
Methionine p-
toluene sulfonate
Metronidazole	20 mg/dL	Metronidazole
Nicotine	2 mg/dL	Nicotine
Nifedipine	200
ng/mL	Nifedipine
Procainamide	100
μg/mL	Procainamide
Propanolol	5 µg/mL	Propanolol
Protein (Serum)	9.3 g/dL	Protein (Serum)
Pyruvic Acid	17.6
mg/dL	Pyruvic Acid
Rheumatoid Factor	373
IU/mL	Rheumatoid Factor
Theophylline	250
µg/mL	Theophylline
Triglycerides	908
mg/dL	Triglycerides
Urea	500
mg/dL	Urea
Warfarin	10 µg/mL	Warfarin

--- Page 9 ---
Products HCY assay. For example, a sample containing 10.0 µmol/L
homocysteine and 0.3µmol/L cystathionine will generate a VITROS HCY
result of 10.3 µmol/L. Elevated cystathionine levels can be observed in
patients with certain conditions, such as renal disease, folate deficiency, and
cystathionine beta-lyase deficiency.
• For samples that generate a Sample Integrity T-index flag, refer to the
Sample Dilution section in the package insert.
Other Limitations
Results should be interpreted with caution. Certain drugs and clinical
conditions are known to alter homocysteine concentration in vivo. For
example, patients who are taking methotrexate, carbamazepine, phenytoin,
nitrous oxide, anticonvulsants, or 6-azuridine triacetate, may have higher
levels of homocysteine due to metabolic interference with homocysteine
metabolism. For additional information, refer to one of the published
summaries cited in the package insert.
f.. Assay cut-off:
None
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A method comparison study was performed on 93 human serum samples on
the VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry Systems and a commercially available method,
based on NCCLS Protocol EP9. Three reagent lots were used for the testing
and all samples were analyzed in triplicate. A least squares linear regression
analysis demonstrated the following relationship: y=0.98 x + 1.0 µmol/L, with
a correlation coefficient = 0.97 where y= results obtained using the VITROS
HCY assay and x= results obtained with the commercially available system
BIO-RAD homocysteine by HPLC assay.
b. Matrix comparison:
Matrix comparison studies were performed by collecting fresh whole blood
from a total of 95 donors. Samples were collected into plain glass, lithium-
heparin plasma, K2EDTA plasma, K3EDTA plasma, and serum separator
tubes at variable fill volumes and pairings and then centrifuged and the serum
separated within 1 hr of collection. For each test condition (specimen type or
stability), assay value difference were calculated from the baseline (serum in
plain glass for specimen collection and fresh sample for stability). The mean
and range of the % differences, across all samples, for each condition were
calculated. For each storage condition, means were calculated and the bias
from fresh results was compared to the applicant’s acceptance criteria for
9

--- Page 10 ---
determination of acceptability. All the specimen types tested were acceptable
at the specimen matrix and stability claims except the plasma samples must be
collected in plasma tubes that are at least half full. The information that
smaller sample volumes can result in negative bias is presented in the package
insert.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
None
4. Clinical cut-off:
None
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Reference intervals were determined for the VITROS HCY assay following
NCCLS Guideline C28-A2. The reference interval is based on the central 95
percent of homocysteine values from an Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. study of
106 healthy female and 99 healthy male adults. Testing was performed on three
VITROS 5,1 FS Chemistry System analyzers using 3 lots of VITROS HCY
reagents. The reference range for males is 6.6-14.8 µmol/L and for females is
4.7-12.6 µmol/L.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10