
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061347
B. Purpose of Submission:
For addition of a high-level VRSA Screen to the VITEK®2 Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Test System for testing on Staphylococcus aureus
C. Analyte
Vancomycin will be included in the VITEK®2 VRSA Screen at a concentration of
16 μg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative growth based detection algorithm using predetermined growth thresholds
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITEK®2 Gram Positive VRSA Screen
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1645 Short-Term Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test System
2. Classification:
II
3. Product Code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Vancomycin at a concentration of 16 µg/mL on the VITEK®2 Gram Positive
susceptibility Card is intended for use with the VITEK 2 System in clinical
laboratories as an in vitro test to determine the susceptibility of
Staphylococcus aureus to antimicrobial agents when used as instructed in the
Online Product Information.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
The VITEK® 2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) is intended to be used
with the VITEK® 2 and VITEK® 2 Compact Systems for the automated
quantitative or qualitative susceptibility testing of isolated colonies for the
most clinically significant aerobic gram-negative bacilli, Staphylococcus spp.,
Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and S. pneumoniae.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for the addition of the VITEK® 2 Gram Positive VRSA
Screen for detecting high level resistance of vancomycin in Staphylococcus
aureus.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
Positive VRSA screen results must be confirmed by performing an alternate
method off line for vancomycin resistance.
The VRSA Screen is intended to detect high-level vancomycin resistance at ≥
16 μ g/mL. It is not intended to be used to detect increased resistance below
16 μ g/mL. Staphylococcus aureus strains with vancomycin MIC results < 16
μ g/mL will not be detected.
The VRSA Screen detected high-level vancomycin resistance in the VRSA S.
aureus strains available at the time of comparative testing. The ability to
detect resistance in other S. aureus strains is unknown due to the limited
number of resistant strains available for comparative testing.
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The VITEK® 2 AST Card contains 64 wells. A control well containing only
microbiological culture media is resident on all cards. The remaining wells contain
premeasured portions of a specific antibiotic combined with culture media which are then
dried. The bacterial isolate to be tested is diluted to a standardized concentration with
0.45% saline before being used to rehydrate the antimicrobial medium within the card.
The VITEK® 2 automatically fills, seals and places the card into the incubator/reader.
The VITEK® 2 Compact has a manual filling and sealing operation. The card is
incubated within the instrument and optically monitored throughout the incubation cycle.
The VRSA screen test is based on two test wells, the vancomycin test well (16 µg/mL)
and a control well. This additional control well is required since this test uses a different
base broth.

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
VITEK® 2 VRSA screen results are reported as either negative (NEG) or positive (POS).
All VRSA Screen positive results will carry the following on the lab report: “Possible
increased vancomycin MIC, confirm using an alternate susceptibility method”.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Vitek® 2 Gram Positive AST for High-Level Streptomycin
2. Predicate K number(s):
N50510/S113
3. Comparison with predicate
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Predict resistance Same
Instrument VITEK®2 System Same
Test Card VITEK®2 card, Same
Results Provide qualitative, Same
positive/negative test results
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Specific Predict high-level Screen to determine if the
indications vancomycin resistance in enterococcal isolate will be
Staphylococcus aureus affected synergistically by a
combination of a penicillin
or glycopeptide with an
aminoglycoside
Test organism Colonies of S. aureus Colonies of Enterococcus
Antibiotic Contains different Contains different
antibiotic, vancomycin, and antibiotic, Streptomycin,
utilize different analysis and utilize different analysis
algorithms algorithms
Media formulation Specific for VRSA screen Base broth for streptomycin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods for
Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard”.
L. Test Principle:
The Vitek® 2 Cards after inoculation are placed into the VITEK® 2 systems where the
growth of each well in the card is monitored over a defined period of time (up to 18
hours). The computer software evaluates when a well demonstrates growth based on the

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Predict resistance			Same		
Instrument			VITEK®2 System			Same		
Test Card			VITEK®2 card,			Same		
Results			Provide qualitative,
positive/negative test results			Same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Specific
indications			Predict high-level
vancomycin resistance in
Staphylococcus aureus			Screen to determine if the
enterococcal isolate will be
affected synergistically by a
combination of a penicillin
or glycopeptide with an
aminoglycoside		
Test organism			Colonies of S. aureus			Colonies of Enterococcus		
Antibiotic			Contains different
antibiotic, vancomycin, and
utilize different analysis
algorithms			Contains different
antibiotic, Streptomycin,
and utilize different analysis
algorithms		
Media formulation			Specific for VRSA screen			Base broth for streptomycin		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
attenuation of light measured by an optical scanner once a predetermined growth
threshold has been reached. At the completion of the incubation cycle, a report is
generated. For the VITEK®2 VRSA Screen, the report will list either a positive or
negative result.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was performed as described in the “Class II Special
Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA” using the 10
isolate study design. The selection of S. aureus included the ATCC
29213 QC isolate and the 4 identified VRSA which were set up in
duplicate but the sample ID was masked to the user. These were
tested at four sites with >95% reproducibility. This testing was
performed using both the manual dilution of the inoculum and also
the automatic dilution method.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
The following table demonstrates the frequency of the quality
control testing for both the reference method and the Vitek® 2.
ORGANISM Test VITEK®2 VITEK®2
AUTO-DIL MAN-DIL
Results
S. aureus Negative 72 69
ATCC 29213 Positive
Expected Result: Neg
Enterococcus faecalis Negative
ATCC 51299 Positive 75 69
Expected Result : Pos
Quality Control was performed during the studies using both the
auto-dilution and the manual method of diluting the organisms.
Inoculum density control was monitored using the DensiChek
instrument. This was standardized weekly with all results recorded
and in the expected range. Verification was performed during
internal testing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 4]
ORGANISM	Test
Results	VITEK®2
AUTO-DIL	VITEK®2
MAN-DIL
S. aureus
ATCC 29213
Expected Result: Neg	Negative	72	69
	Positive		
			
			
Enterococcus faecalis
ATCC 51299
Expected Result : Pos	Negative		
	Positive	75	69
			

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical testing was performed at 3 sites on 310 S. aureus isolates using the
VITEK®2 VRSA Screen test and compared to the CLSI reference broth
microdilution method. A qualitative comparison only was performed. All
MIC reference results were < 1 µg/mL except for one which was recorded
as 2 µg/mL. The performance was in category agreement 100% of the time
with no major errors. Very Major errors are not possible when no resistant
isolates exist.
A challenge study was performed utilizing auto-dilution and manual
dilution at one site with 50 isolates. The testing included 20 enterococci
and 30 S. aureus with one known VRSA isolate. The enterococci were
included to capture vanA resistance since it was anticipated that the clinical
isolates of S. aureus would not include this gene. The S. aureus results had
16 isolates with broth MIC values between 2 and 8 µg/mL. All of these
tested negative for the VITEK® VRSA Screen test. The high level resistant
S. aureus (3 results) were all VITEK® VRSA Screen positive. One
Enterococcus test results was falsely negative. There was no difference
between the two types of dilutions.
Greater than 95% of the isolates grew in the VITEK®2 card in less than 16
hours.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values:
The incidence of VRSA is very low. Results will be reported our as: Negative
or Positive.
N. Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part
809.10.
Quality Control recommendations will be included in the package insert.

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
Limitation statements included: Positive VRSA screen results must be
confirmed by performing an alternate method off line for vancomycin
resistance.
The VRSA Screen is intended to detect high-level vancomycin resistance at ≥
16 μ g/mL. It is not intended to be used to detect increased resistance below
16 μ g/mL. Staphylococcus aureus strains with vancomycin MIC results < 16
μ g/mL will not be detected.
The VRSA Screen detected high-level vancomycin resistance in the VRSA S.
aureus strains available at the time of comparative testing. The ability to
detect resistance in other S. aureus strains is unknown due to the limited
number of resistant strains available for comparative testing.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.