
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K061805
B. Purpose for Submission:
New assay
C. Measurand:
Lupus Anticoagulant
D. Type of Test:
Clotting
E. Applicant:
Diagnostica Stago
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Staclot® DRVV Screen
Staclot® DRVV Confirm
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8950
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
GIR
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The STA®-Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm are intended for the detection of
lupus anticoagulants (LA) in plasma by the dilute Russell’s viper venom method.
2. Indication(s) for use:
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
Analyzers of the STA® line
I. Device Description:
The STA®-Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm assay Kit consists of freeze-dried
Russell’s viper venom, phospholipids, calcium and heparin inhibitor (UHF). The
STA®-Staclot® dRVV Screen is available in 2ml and 5 ml vials. The STA®-
Staclot® dRVV Confirm is available in 2 ml vials.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
HemosIL LAC Screen and Confirm
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K990302
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Detection of lupus Same
anticoagulant in plasma
by the dilute Russell’s
viper venom method
Sample Requirements Citrated plasma same
Storage requirement 2-8 °C same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reconstituted reagent 72 hours 48 hours
stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
L. Test Principle:
Lupus anticoagulants are antibodies directed against phosholipid/protein complexes.
Staclot® dRVV Screen test is performed with a low phospholipids concentration
reagent to screen samples. If lupus anticoagulants are present, the clotting time will
be prolonged.
The Staclot® dRVV Confirm Reagent contains a higher phospholipids concentration
to neutralize the LA present in the plasma to be tested. The clotting time obtained
with the Staclot® dRVV Confirm Reagent will be shorter than the one observed with
the Staclot® dRVV Screen reagent.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
3 lots of Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm were used to determine within-
run precision using LA positive and negative control plasmas. Each control
was assayed 21 times on each lot. A CV of less than 1.0% was obtained for all
lots.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Detection of lupus
anticoagulant in plasma
by the dilute Russell’s
viper venom method			Same		
Sample Requirements			Citrated plasma			same		
Storage requirement			2-8 °C			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reconstituted reagent
stability			72 hours			48 hours		

--- Page 4 ---
Inter-assay precision was assessed using lyophilized positive and negative LA
samples on 1 lot of Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm. Positive and
negative samples were assayed on the Staclot® dRVV Screen, and a positive
sample was assayed on the Staclot® dRVV Confirm. Samples were assayed
in 10 runs over 6 days. CV’s ≤ 4.1% was obtained for the Screen and
Confirm reagents.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability data supported the reagent shelf life.
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
Samples from patients on heparin may give a falsely elevated clotting time
using the Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm assays. The Staclot® dRVV
Screen and Confirm Assay contains a heparin inhibitor that will neutralize
the effects of heparin up to 0.8 IU/mL. To verify this claim a normal plasma
pool and a LA positive plasma were spiked with known quantities of UF. The
plasmas were then tested with three lots of Staclot® dRVV Screen and
Confirm reagents. No significant difference was seen in the Screen, Confirm,
and Normalized ratios up to 0.8 IU/mL.
To assess the effect of LMWH on the Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm
assays, a normal plasma pool and a LA positive plasma were spiked with
known quantities of Fragmin. The plasmas were then tested with three lots of
Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm reagents. No significant difference was
seen in the Screen, Confirm, and Normalized ratios up to o.8 anti-Xa IU/mL
fragmin.
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The device was compared to the predicate at a 2 site study. At site one
samples were collected from several hospitals in France, and assayed at
Diagnostica Stago. Site 2 testing was performed at a hospital reference
4

--- Page 5 ---
laboratory in Canada. Results demonstrated 92% agreement with the
predicate device.
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
27 normal plasmas were tested with the Staclot® dRVV Screen and Confirm
assays. A normal reference sample was also tested with each batch of test
plasmas. Testing was performed over multiple days on the STA-R. The mean
Staclot Screen and Confirm ratio was 1.04 and 1.08.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5