
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061703
B. Purpose for Submission:
Premarket Notification (510(k)) of intention to manufacture and market the CHEM 2
CAL calibrator.
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Phosphorus, salicylate, and triglycerides.
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable to this submission.
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CHEM 2 CAL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1150: Calibrator, Multi-Analyte Mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
75 (Chemistry)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Please see indications for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The CHEM 2 CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of
Phosphorus (PHOS), Salicylate (SAL), and Triglycerides (TRIG) methods on the
Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista™ System
I. Device Description:
CHEM 2 CAL is a liquid, multi-analyte, bovine serum albumin based product
containing phosphorus, salicylate and glycerol. The kit consists of six vials, three
vials of Calibrator A, and three vials of Calibrator B which are ready for use (no
preparation is required). The volume per vial is 2.0 mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
CHEM II Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k861700
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended The CHEM 2 CAL is an in vitro CHEM II Calibrator is an
Use diagnostic product for the in vitro diagnostic product
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended
Use			The CHEM 2 CAL is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the			CHEM II Calibrator is an
in vitro diagnostic product		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
calibration of Phosphorus, to be used to calibrate the
Salicylate, and Triglycerides Dimension® clinical
methods on the Dimension Vista™ chemistry system for the
System. magnesium, phosphorus
and triglycerides methods.
Form Liquid Liquid
Traceability Phosphorus - NIST SRM 2186I Same
Triglycerides – Anhydrous Glycerol,
ACS grade
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Matrix Aqueous Bovine Serum Phosphate buffered
Albumin saline
Analytes Phosphorus, Salicylate , Phosphorus and
and Triglycerides Triglycerides
Levels 2 3
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final, 02/22/1999
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels and in Labeling of In
Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional Use, 11/30/2004
CEN 13640: Stability testing of In-Vitro Diagnostic Devices.
ISO 14971:2000 Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable to this submission.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable to this submission.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable to this submission.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			calibration of Phosphorus,
Salicylate, and Triglycerides
methods on the Dimension Vista™
System.			to be used to calibrate the
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system for the
magnesium, phosphorus
and triglycerides methods.		
Form			Liquid			Liquid		
Traceability			Phosphorus - NIST SRM 2186I
Triglycerides – Anhydrous Glycerol,
ACS grade			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Matrix			Aqueous Bovine Serum
Albumin			Phosphate buffered
saline		
Analytes			Phosphorus, Salicylate ,
and Triglycerides			Phosphorus and
Triglycerides		
Levels			2			3		

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The sponsor demonstrated the stability of their device using real-time data.
To assess the shelf life of their device, the company compared concentration
measurements made on unopened material stored at 4°C to material stored at
-20°C. The company made 5 replicate measurements at each level on days 0,
3, 7, 35, 98, 189, 280, 325, and 371. Data supplied by the company supports
the claimed shelf life of 12 months.
To demonstrate the stability of their opened, refrigerated device, the company
punctured vials on day zero, removed material, and returned the device to
storage at 2 – 8 °C. The company performed 5 replicate measurements on
each level of calibrator. Material stored at -20°C was used as a comparator.
The company performed subsequent measurements on days 8, 15, 22 and 32.
The data supplied by the company supports the claimed opened, refrigerated
shelf life of 30 days.
The company verifies the target concentration of the calibrator material
following an internally established manufacturing procedure: the new
calibrator is made by adding by weight aqueous solutions of potassium
dihydrogen phosphate, sodium salicylate, and glycerol reference materials to a
stock solution at target concentrations. The company validates the traceability
and expected value of the device through 45 replicate measurements across
multiple instruments calibrated with primary standards. A previously
released lot of calibrator is used as control material.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable to this submission.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable to this submission.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable to this submission.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable to this submission.
b. Matrix comparison:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable to this submission.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable to this submission.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable to this submission.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable to this submission.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable to this submission.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable to this submission.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5