
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061751
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator materials
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension VistaTM System Urinary/Celebrospinal Fluid Protein Calibrator (UCFP
CAL – KC260)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Calibrator, Class II 21 CFR 862.1150 75 Clinical
secondary (JIT) Calibrator Chemistry (CH)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The UCFP CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein (UCFP) method on the Dimension Vista™
System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended use above.

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Calibrator,
secondary (JIT)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150
Calibrator			75 Clinical
Chemistry (CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista System
I. Device Description:
The UCFP CAL is an aqueous product containing dilute human serum. The kit
consists of three vials of Calibrator A. The volume per vial is 1.5 mL. UCFP CAL is
ready for use, where no preparation is required. System water is used as the UCFP
zero calibrator (Level 1) for the Dimension Vista™ System.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein Calibrator
2. Predicate K number(s):
k934843
3. Comparsion with predicate:
Device Predicate
Dimension VistaTM System
Dimension® Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid
Item Urinary/Celebrospinal Fluid Protein
Protein Calibrator
Calibrator
Dimension® Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid
The UCFP CAL is an in vitro diagnostic
Protein Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic
product for the calibration of the
Intended product to be used to calibrate the
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein
Use Dimension® clinical chemistry system for the
(UCFP) method on the Dimension
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein (UCFP)
Vista™ System.
method.
Analytes Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein
Form Liquid Liquid
Traceability NIST SRM 927(1) NIST SRM 927(1)
Aqueous product containing dilute Saline solution containing human serum
Matrix
human serum albumin and IgG
One level (level 2). Level 1 is system
Levels Five levels
water

[Table 1 on page 2]
		
	Device	Predicate
		
Item	Dimension VistaTM System
Urinary/Celebrospinal Fluid Protein
Calibrator	Dimension® Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid
Protein Calibrator
Intended
Use	The UCFP CAL is an in vitro diagnostic
product for the calibration of the
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein
(UCFP) method on the Dimension
Vista™ System.	Dimension® Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid
Protein Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic
product to be used to calibrate the
Dimension® clinical chemistry system for the
Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein (UCFP)
method.
Analytes	Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein	Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein
Form	Liquid	Liquid
Traceability	NIST SRM 927(1)	NIST SRM 927(1)
Matrix	Aqueous product containing dilute
human serum	Saline solution containing human serum
albumin and IgG
Levels	One level (level 2). Level 1 is system
water	Five levels

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)
Other Standards
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
OIVD
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Tracebility:
The assigned values of the Urinary/Cerebrospinal Fluid Protein Calibrator are
traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology- Standard
Reference Material 927.
Stability:
Target shelf life for the Dimension Vista™ System Urinary/Cerebrospinal
Fluid Protein Calibrator is 12 months. Calibrator shelf life is determined by

[Table 1 on page 3]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)

[Table 2 on page 3]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final	OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use			http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
			

--- Page 4 ---
comparing results of the product stored at 4°C with control stored at -20°C.
The method is calibrated from this stored material. The 4°C material values
are recovered versus the calibration. Recovery versus time is monitored and
percent change over time is determined. Percent change should be less than or
equal to 3%. Shelf-life stability (expiration) dating assignment at
commercialization reflects the real-time data on file at Dade Behring, Inc. A
vial punctured by the instrument and stored on board is stable for seven days.
An open vial not stored on board of the instrument, but recapped and stored in
a refrigerator is stable for 31 days. For testing, vials are opened /punctured on
day zero. A quantity sufficient for multiple calibrations is removed and the
vials are recapped and stored at 2 – 8 °C. Opened/punctured vials are tested
on days 8, 15, 22, and 32 versus freshly opened vials.
Value Assignment:
The purified human IgG and human serum albumin are added gravimetrically
to stock solution at target concentrations and verified using an instrument
calibrated with Master Pool assigned values. Calculated quantities of human
serum stock solution are added to base matrix (aqueous solution) in
appropriate concentrations for one calibrator level. The test calibrator level is
verified using an instrument calibrated with the Master Pool assigned values.
The final bottle assignment for test calibrator level of the commercial lot is
tested N = 90 replicates, with multiple reagent lots on multiple instruments.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:

--- Page 5 ---
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.