
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061818
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Alkaline Phosphatase
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator material
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension VistaTM System Alkaline Phosphatase Calibrator (ALP CAL – KC330)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Calibrator, Class II 21 CFR 862.1150 75 Clinical
secondary (JIT) Calibrator Chemistry (CH)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The ALP CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the Alkaline
Phosphatase method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended use above
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Calibrator,
secondary (JIT)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150
Calibrator			75 Clinical
Chemistry (CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista
I. Device Description:
The ALP CAL is a liquid bovine protein product containing alkaline phosphatase
from porcine kidney. The kit consists of three vials of Calibrator A. The volume per
vial is 1.0 mL. ALP CAL is ready for use, no preparation is required. System water is
used as the ALP zero calibrator (Level 1) for the Dimension Vista™ System.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® Enzyme Verifier (DC19) and VITROS Chemistry Products
Calibrator Kit 3.
2. Predicate K number(s):
k860021 for Dimension® clinical chemistry system.
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Dimension Vista™ System ALP Dimension®
Calibrator (New device) Enzyme Verifier (Predicate device)
Intended The ALP Calibrator is an in vitro Enzyme Verifier is an in vitro diagnostic product
Use diagnostic product for the calibration of to be used to verify alkaline phosphatase (ALP),
alkaline phosphatase (ALP) on the amylase (AMY), g-glutamyl transferase (GGT),
Dimension Vista™ System. aspartame aminotransferase (AST), alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) and lactic dehydrogenase
(LDH) method performance on the Dimension®
clinical chemistry system.
Analytes Alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Amylase (AMY)
g-glutamyl transferase (GGT), Aspartame
aminotransferase (AST),
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Lactic
dehydrogenase (LDH).
Form Liquid. Lyophilized
Traceability Master Pool, Dimension® clinical Master Pool, Dimension® clinical chemistry
chemistry system values. system values.
Matrix Bovine protein, porcine kidney based Human serum, bovine kidney based product.
product.
Calibration One level. Three levels.
/
Verification
Levels
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Item	Dimension Vista™ System ALP
Calibrator (New device)	Dimension®
Enzyme Verifier (Predicate device)
Intended
Use	The ALP Calibrator is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the calibration of
alkaline phosphatase (ALP) on the
Dimension Vista™ System.	Enzyme Verifier is an in vitro diagnostic product
to be used to verify alkaline phosphatase (ALP),
amylase (AMY), g-glutamyl transferase (GGT),
aspartame aminotransferase (AST), alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) and lactic dehydrogenase
(LDH) method performance on the Dimension®
clinical chemistry system.
Analytes	Alkaline phosphatase (ALP).	Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Amylase (AMY)
g-glutamyl transferase (GGT), Aspartame
aminotransferase (AST),
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Lactic
dehydrogenase (LDH).
Form	Liquid.	Lyophilized
Traceability	Master Pool, Dimension® clinical
chemistry system values.	Master Pool, Dimension® clinical chemistry
system values.
Matrix	Bovine protein, porcine kidney based
product.	Human serum, bovine kidney based product.
Calibration
/
Verification
Levels	One level.	Three levels.

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)
Other Standards
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
OIVD
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The assigned values of the Alkaline Phosphatase Calibrator are traceable to
Master Pool, Dimension® Clinical Chemistry System.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents (13640)
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)

[Table 2 on page 3]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final	OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use			http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
			

--- Page 4 ---
Stability:
Target shelf life for the ALP calibrator is 12 months. Calibrator shelf life
(long term) stability is determined by comparing results of the product stored
at -70°C with control stored at -20°C. Percent change should be less than or
equal to 6%. Shelf-life stability (expiration) dating assignment at
commercialization reflects the real-time data on file at Dade Behring, Inc.
Open vial (in use) stability is 7 days if kept on the instrument and 30 days if
stored in the refrigerator.
Value Assignment:
The new calibrator Master Pool is made by gravimetrically adding quantities
of alkaline phosphatase to StabilZyme® AP to target concentrations. Three
levels of Master Pool are prepared and stored at -70° C. The concentrations
are verified using a previously approved Master Pool lot as a control. The
final bottle value for the Master Pool is assigned for each level by testing N =
45 replicates on multiple instruments. A stock solution is prepared for the new
commercial calibrator lot by gravimetrically adding alkaline phosphatase to
StabilZyme® AP to target concentration. The stock solution concentration is
verified by comparing the Master Pool assigned bottle values. For the
commercial calibrator lot, calculated quantity of the stock solution is added to
StabilZyme® AP to target concentrations. The concentration of the
commercial lot is verified to be within acceptable range by using an
instrument calibrated with Master Pools. The final bottle value is assigned to
the commercial lot level and verified using a previously released commercial
lot of calibrator on multiple instruments for N = 45 total replicates.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5