
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k061990
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Urine Albumin (microalbumin)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ MALB Flex® Reagent Cartridge
Dimension Vista™ Protein 3 Calibrator
Dimension Vista™ Protein 3 Control
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Classification Regulation Section Panel
Code
DCF II 21 CFR 866.5040 82 (Immunology)
Albumin, Antigen, Antiserum,
Control
JIT II 21 CFR 862.1150 75 (Chemistry)
Calibrator, secondary
JJY I 21 CFR 862.1660 75 (Chemistry)
Single (specified) analyte
controls (assayed and unassayed)

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
	Code				
DCF			II	21 CFR 866.5040
Albumin, Antigen, Antiserum,
Control	82 (Immunology)
JIT			II	21 CFR 862.1150
Calibrator, secondary	75 (Chemistry)
JJY			I	21 CFR 862.1660
Single (specified) analyte
controls (assayed and unassayed)	75 (Chemistry)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The MALB method is an in vitro diagnostic reagent for the quantitative
determination of albumin in human urine on the Dimension Vista™ System.
Measurement of albumin aids in the diagnosis of kidney and intestinal disease.
Protein 3 Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
Microalbumin (MALB) method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
Protein 3 Control is an assayed intralaboratory quality control for the assessment
of precision and analytical bias in determination of Microalbumin (MALB) on the
Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Behring Dimension Vista™ System
I. Device Description:
The Dimension Vista™ Microalbumin Flex® Reagent Cartridge is a twelve well
reagent cartridge containing microalbumin (MALB) supplement, phosphate buffer,
polyethylene glycol, rabbit antiserum to human albumin and preservatives.
The Dimension Vista™ Protein 3 Calibrator is a one level lyophilized calibrator that
is a diluted into seven levels by the analyzer of 4.4, 8.8, 18, 35, 70, 140, and 412
mg/L. The calibrator contains urinary protein of human origin containing albumin
and preservatives. Donors of human urine used in the preparation of this product
were tested by FDA-approved methods for the presence of antibodies to HIV-1 and
HIV-2, Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg) and antibodies to Hepatitis C Virus
(HCV).
The Dimension Vista™ Protein 3 Control is one level lyophilized, polygeline control
containing albumin of human origin with a target value of approximately 165 mg/L.
Donors of human urine used in the preparation of this product were tested by FDA-
approved methods for the presence of antibodies to HIV-1 and HIV-2, Hepatitis B
Surface Antigen (HBsAg) and antibodies to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV).

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring N Antiserum to Human Albumin Assay
Dade Behring N Protein Standard SL
Dade Behring N/T Protein Control LC
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k860894
k012470
k991704
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Quantitative Quantitative
determination of albumin determination of albumin
in human urine on the in human serum and
Dimension Vista™ human urine in
system. Measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
albumin aids in the using BN Systems.
diagnosis of kidney and
intestinal diseases.
Principle Nephelometric Nephelometric
Antibody Rabbit Polyclonal Rabbit Polyclonal
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyzer Dimension Vista BN Systems
Assay Range 5 – 340 mg/L 11 – 340 mg/L
Calibrator Only albumin Multi-Analyte
Control Only albumin Multi-Analyte
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP7-A Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry
CLSI EP5-A Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry
Devices

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Quantitative
determination of albumin
in human urine on the
Dimension Vista™
system. Measurement of
albumin aids in the
diagnosis of kidney and
intestinal diseases.			Quantitative
determination of albumin
in human serum and
human urine in
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
using BN Systems.		
Principle			Nephelometric			Nephelometric		
Antibody			Rabbit Polyclonal			Rabbit Polyclonal		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyzer			Dimension Vista			BN Systems		
Assay Range			5 – 340 mg/L			11 – 340 mg/L		
Calibrator			Only albumin			Multi-Analyte		
Control			Only albumin			Multi-Analyte		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
The Dimension Vista Microalbumin (MALB) Flex Reagent Cartridge utilizes a
method based on nephelometric measuring principles that allows direct quantitation
of albumin in urine samples. The cartridge contains specific antibodies to human
albumin, which form immunocomplexes in an immunochemical reaction with
albumin contained in human urine. These complexes cause a beam of light to scatter
when passed through the urine sample. The intensity of the scattered light is
proportional to the albumin concentration in the sample. The rate of aggregation is
measured by reading the increased light signal at 840 nm. The results are evaluated
by comparison with a standard of known concentration.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within-lab and repeatability precision was assessed according to EP5-A2.
One low urine pool, one higher urine pool and the Dade Behring N/T Protein
Control LC (twenty specimens per level) were analyzed in duplicate, twice a
day for twenty days. The precision data is summarized in the chart below.
Material Mean Repeatability Within-Lab
(mg/L) SD (%CV) SD (%CV)
Prot3 Control 146 3.5 (2.4) 5.8 (4.0)
Low urine pool 10 0.6 (6.4) 0.8 (7.6)
High urine pool 245 6.9 (2.8) 10.9 (4.5)
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The sponsor claims a reportable range for their assay of 5 – 340 mg/L.
Linearity of the assay was evaluated using a dilution series that spanned from
6.70 to 315 mg/L. Serial dilution sets were prepared using system diluents
using urine samples with high concentrations of albumin. Each dilution was
tested in replicates of five. The sponsor calculated both percent recovery and
linear regression. The mean recovery for the 13 dilutions was 98.1%. The
dilution linearity regression line was y=0.992 + 0.073 with a correlation
coefficient of 0.999.
The sponsor also conducted a hook effect study to evaluate urine samples
above the assay range. The sponsor reports that there is no high end hook
effect observed on samples up to 12693 mg/L. The Dimension Vista has an
auto dilution of samples that are above 340 mg/L.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Material	Mean
(mg/L)	Repeatability
SD (%CV)	Within-Lab
SD (%CV)
Prot3 Control	146	3.5 (2.4)	5.8 (4.0)
Low urine pool	10	0.6 (6.4)	0.8 (7.6)
High urine pool	245	6.9 (2.8)	10.9 (4.5)

--- Page 5 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
A 24 month stability study using 3 Flex Reagent cartridges, Protein 3
calibrator and the Protein 3 Control (all tested in triplicates) were stored at 2
and 8° C and tested at several intervals. An onboard stability study was also
conducted for unwrapped cartridges and open cartridges after being stored at 2
different temperatures to determine optimum shelf-life. The studies supported
the sponsor’s expiration and open well stability claims listed in the chart
below.
Closed Stability Open Stability
MALB Flex Reagent 90 day 21 days
Cartridge
Protein 3 Calibrator 2 years 14 days
Protein 3 Control 2 years 14 days
d. Detection limit:
Analytical sensitivity was defined as the minimal level of analyte (diluent)
which is distinguished from zero. The sponsor calculated the value 1.27 mg/L
as the mean value of twenty replicates plus standard deviations. This
calculation supports the sponsor’s LOD claim of 5 mg/L.
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference testing was performed according to CLSI EP7-A for endogenous
and exogenous substances with the Dimension Vista™ MALB Assay. Bias
was determined by testing a control sample without the interferent and
comparing it to the value obtained from test sample containing the potential
interferent. The endogenous substances that the sponsor tested were
bilirubin (conjugated and unconjugated), creatine, hemoglobin, IgG and urea.
The exogenous substances tested were acetone, ascorbic acid, boric acid,
ethanol, glucose, oxalic acid, riboflavin, sodium azide, sodium chloride and
sodium fluoride. Each substance at the concentration tested did not cause
>10% relative deviation from the base pool. See package insert for a
summary of concentrations and results.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The Dimension Vista MALB assay was compared to the Dade Behring N

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Closed Stability	Open Stability
MALB Flex Reagent
Cartridge	90 day	21 days
Protein 3 Calibrator	2 years	14 days
Protein 3 Control	2 years	14 days

--- Page 6 ---
Antiserum to Human Albumin assay on the BN ProSPEC® System. Seventy-
four urine samples with concentrations ranging from 5.87 to 332.7 mg/L were
measured with both devices and a linear regression analysis was conducted.
The resulting equation was Y=0.988x -0.936 with a correlation coefficient of
0.996.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable as this is a urine only assay.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The sponsor reports the following expected values obtained from literature from
the American Diabetes Association: Standards of Medical Care for Patients with
Diabetes Mellitus and Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry, 5th edition.
Less than 20 μg/ming
Less than 30 mg/24 hour
Excretion rate: less than 30 mg albumin/g creatinineh
g. MALB (mg/L)x[Urine Volume (mL)/Time (minutes)] = mg MALB/min.
h. [MALB (mg/L)/Urine creatinine (mg/dL)]x 100=mg MALB/g creatinine.
The sponsor has placed in their label a statement regarding intra-individual
variation.

--- Page 7 ---
“To minimize intra-individual variation, analysis of three random urine samples
collected over the course of a week has also been recommended. Each laboratory
should establish its own reference interval for microalbumin as performed on the
Dimension Vista System. Calculation of an excretion rate requires a timed
specimen collection and accurate volume measurement.”
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.