
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K061686
B. Purpose for Submission:
To detect vanA and vanB genes in rectal swabs
C. Measurand:
vanA and vanB genes
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative Nucleic Acid Amplification Test of the vanA and vanB genes directly
from rectal swabs.
E. Applicant:
GeneOhm Sciences Canada Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
IDI-VanR™ Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1640
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
NIJ – System, test, genotypic detection, resistant markers
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
83
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The IDI-VanR® Assay is a qualitative in vitro test for the rapid detection of
vancomycin-resistance (vanA and vanB) genes directly from rectal swabs. The
IDI-vanR® Assay detects the presence of the vanA and vanB genes that can be
associated with vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). The assay is performed
on an automated real-time PCR instrument with rectal swabs from patients at risk
for VRE colonization. The IDI-VanR® Assay can be used as an aid to identify,
prevent and control vancomycin-resistant colonization in healthcare settings.
Concomitant cultures are necessary to recover organisms for epidemiological
typing, susceptibility testing and for further confirmatory identification. The IDI-
VanR® Assay is not intended to diagnose VRE infections nor to guide or monitor
treatment for VRE infections.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The IDI-VanR® Assay is a qualitative in vitro test for the rapid detection of
vancomycin-resistance (vanA and vanB) genes directly from rectal swabs. The
IDI-vanR® Assay detects the presence of the vanA and vanB genes that can be
associated with vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). The assay is performed
on an automated real-time PCR instrument with rectal swabs from patients at risk
for VRE colonization. The IDI-VanR® Assay can be used as an aid to identify,
prevent and control vancomycin-resistant colonization in healthcare settings.
Concomitant cultures are necessary to recover organisms for epidemiological
typing, susceptibility testing and for further confirmatory identification. The IDI-
VanR® Assay is not intended to diagnose VRE infections nor to guide or monitor
treatment for VRE infections.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Samples must be collected using the Copan Transystem™ swabs. (Liquid Stuart,
Liquid Amies, Amies Agar Gel without Charcoal, or Amies Agar Gel with
Charcoal).
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Assay is performed with the SmartCycler® instrument
I. Device Description:
The IDI-VanR ™ Assay is performed on rectal swabs with a procedure that includes
2

--- Page 3 ---
specimen lysis, amplification of the vanA and vanB targets, and detection of
fluorogenic target-specific hybridization probes. The amplification, detection and
interpretation of the signals are done automatically by the Cepheid SmartCycler®
instrument software. A positive and negative control is included in each IDI-vanR ™
Assay run. An Internal Control is also included in each assay tube. The inclusion of
these three controls will monitor every step of the PCR procedure and the
functionality of every reagent. External controls are recommended to monitor the cell
lysis and DNA extraction steps. The procedure takes about 60 to 75 minutes.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bile Esculin Azide agar with 6 µg/mL vancomycin
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K972359
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Screening for Same
vancomycin resistance
Type of test Qualitative Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology PCR amplification with Growth based phenotypic
detection of fluorogenic detection
target-specific
hybridization
Controls Positive, negative and E. faecalis ATCC 51299
internal controls are part – positive;
of the assay. Specimen E. faecalis ATCC 29212
processing controls are – negative
recommended which
include positive and
negative Enterococci spp.
isolates
Mode of detection Presence of vanA and or Growth or no growth in
vanB genes the presence of 6 µg/mL
vancomycin
Specimen Type Rectal swab Rectal swab or stool
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Screening for
vancomycin resistance			Same		
Type of test			Qualitative			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Technology			PCR amplification with
detection of fluorogenic
target-specific
hybridization			Growth based phenotypic
detection		
Controls			Positive, negative and
internal controls are part
of the assay. Specimen
processing controls are
recommended which
include positive and
negative Enterococci spp.
isolates			E. faecalis ATCC 51299
– positive;
E. faecalis ATCC 29212
– negative		
Mode of detection			Presence of vanA and or
vanB genes			Growth or no growth in
the presence of 6 µg/mL
vancomycin		
Specimen Type			Rectal swab			Rectal swab or stool		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
Following specimen lysis and vanA and vanB amplification, the DNA targets are
detected with molecular beacons, a hairpin-forming single-stranded oligonucleotides
labeled as tone end with a quencher and at the other end with a fluorescent reporter
dye (fluorophore). In the absence of target, the fluorescence is quenched. In the
presence of target, the hairpin structure opens upon beacon/target hybridization,
resulting in emission of fluorescence. For the detection of vanA amplicons, the
molecular beacon contains the fluorophore FAM at the 5’ end and the non-fluorescent
quencher moiety DABCYL at the opposite end of the oligonucleotide. For the
detection of the vanB amplicons, the molecular beacon contains the fluorophore
Texas Red at the 5’ end and the quencher DABCYL at the 3’ end. Each beacon-
target hybrid fluoresces at a wavelength characteristic of the fluorophore used in the
particular molecular beacon. The amount of fluorescence depends on the amount of
specific amplicons present at that time. The SmartCycler® software simultaneously
monitors the fluorescence emitted by each beacon, interprets all data, and provides a
final result at the end of the cycling program.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Ten samples containing negative matrix consisting of 3 low positive
specimens and 5 high positive specimens and a negative and positive control
were frozen and sent to three sites. Testing was performed in triplicate on
three separate days at each site with three lots. Both vanA and vanB genes
were included to ensure that all primers and probes of the IDI-vanR ™ Assay
were assessed. The overall reproducibility was > 95% with 3 invalid positive
control results.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The table below describes internal controls that are part of the assay with the
various parts controlled.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Step controlled Positive Negative Internal
Control Control Control
Specimen Cell lysis
Preparation DNA extraction
Inactivation of heat labile inhibitors X X
PCR Denaturation step X X
Primer/target annealing X X
Elongation Step X X
Probe/amplicon annealing X X
Presence of non heat labile PCR inhibitors X
Reagent contamination X
Environmental contamination with GBS amplicon X
Since Cell lysis and DNA extraction are not controlled, the Package Insert
will carry a statement that the user may test a positive and negative strain
as recommended or required by other regulations. The recommendations
include the testing of ATCC 51299 E. faecalis as a positive specimen
processing control and for E. gallinarum ATCC 700425 as an external
negative control.
d. Detection limit:
Internal studies determined that the genomic limits of detection (LOD) for
specific vanA and vanB are 5 and 10 DNA copies per reaction, respectively.
The bacterial LOD for vanA and vanB are 1.6 and 1.4 CFU/reaction.
e. Analytical specificity:
Analytical specificity of the IDI-vanR ™ Assay was determined with well-
characterized isolates of vancomycin-sensitive closely related genera, and
other pathogenic and commensal flora found in the rectum and stools. These
included Enterococcus spp. with the presence of other van genes (vanC, vanD,
vanE, vanG). All provided a negative test result.
Potentially interfering substances were tested using materials that may be
found in the rectum (petroleum jellies, creams, blood, suppositories). Blood
showed a reduction in the IC% Endpoint and hydrocortisone provided
unresolved results when the swab was heavily covered in it.
f. Assay cut-off:
Acceptance Criteria for the IDI-VanR™ were established during assay
development and pre-validated at one external site with 216 specimens prior
to the clinical trial. The acceptance criteria includes; Endpoint threshold, 2nd
derivative threshold, minimum cycle threshold, maximum cycle threshold,
and % IC NC endpoint.
2. Comparison studies:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Step controlled		Positive
Control	Negative
Control	Internal
Control
Specimen
Preparation	Cell lysis			
	DNA extraction			
	Inactivation of heat labile inhibitors		X	X
PCR	Denaturation step	X		X
	Primer/target annealing	X		X
	Elongation Step	X		X
	Probe/amplicon annealing	X		X
Presence of non heat labile PCR inhibitors				X
Reagent contamination			X	
Environmental contamination with GBS amplicon			X	

--- Page 6 ---
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A clinical study was conducted at 4 diverse sites from units with high VRE
prevalence such as intensive care units. Each site performed routine VRE
screening (culture on selective media [Bile Esculin azide agar with 6 µg/mL
vancomycin (BEAV) plate) followed by phenotypic identification and
detection of vancomycin and teicoplanin resistance]. An enriched culture
method was also inoculated (Bile Esculin Azide broth with vancomycin 8
µg/mL) and further cultured if the original culture was negative. A total of
968 rectal swab specimens were collected with one of the recommended
swabs (refer to “Materials required but not provided”), screened for
vancomycin-resistance with the reference culture method described above and
with the IDI-VanR™ assay. Compared to the culture method, the IDI-
VanR™ assay identified 97.3% of the positive specimens (by either culture
technique), and 91.4% of the specimens negative (by both culture techniques).
For the population tested, these results produced a negative predictive value of
99.6% and positive predictive value of 59.1%.
IDI-VANR™
VANA VANB VANA+B NEGATIVE UNRESOLVED TOTAL
VanA 80 0 18 3 0 101
Reference VanB 0 4 3 0 0 7
Method
VanA + B 0 0 2 0 0 2
Negative 14 58 2 783 1 858
Total : 94 62 25 786 1 968
The IDI-vanR ™ “vanB “only column in the table above would be
recommended for further confirmation according to the interpretation of this
result. Of the 62 vanB only positives, 4 were culture vanB positive with the
rest not positive fro VRE by culture.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
		IDI-VANR™					
		VANA	VANB	VANA+B	NEGATIVE	UNRESOLVED	TOTAL
Reference
Method	VanA	80	0	18	3	0	101
	VanB	0	4	3	0	0	7
	VanA + B	0	0	2	0	0	2
	Negative	14	58	2	783	1	858
	Total :	94	62	25	786	1	968

--- Page 7 ---
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of VRE in the study population was 11.1%. The overall vanA
prevalence was 10.6% and vanB was 0.9%.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7

--- Page 8 ---
8