
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K061065
B. Purpose for Submission:
Marketing in the U.S.
C. Measurand:
Human Hemoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Immunological test for the qualitative detection of monoclonal antibodies for human
hemoglobin
E. Applicant:
TECO Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Teco Rapid Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Card Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.6550 Occult Blood Test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KHE
4. Panel:
Hematology 81
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Teco Rapid Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Card Test is an immunochromatographic
assay intended for the determination of human hemoglobin in feces by
professional laboratories or physician’s offices. It is useful to determine
gastrointestinal bleeding founding a number of gastrointestinal disorders such as
colorectal carcinoma, colon polyps, diverticulitis and ulcerative colitis.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Teco Rapid Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Card Test is recommended for use in 1)
routine physical examination, 2) hospital monitoring for bleeding in patients, and
3 screening for colorectal cancer or gastrointestinal bleeding from any source.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The Teco Rapid Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Card Test is a sandwich immunoassay; it
employs a combination of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to selectively
identify human hemoglobin in test samples with a high degree of sensitivity. It
consists of the test device and buffer in a sample collection tube.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Alfa Scientific, Inc. Instant-View™ Fecal Occult Blood Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K021423
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Sample Feces in extraction buffer Same
Intended Use Qualitative detection of Same
fecal occult blood in
feces by professional
laboratories and
physician’s offices
Extraction Buffer PBS Same
Sensitivity 50 ng hHb/ml buffer Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Test Principle Immunoassay utilizing Immunoassay utilizing
monoclonal and monoclonal for the
polyclonal antibodies for detection of human
the detection of human hemoglobin
hemoglobin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS EP9-A2 Method Comparison and Bias Estimation using Patient Samples;
Approved Guideline
NCCLS EP2-P User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test performance;
Approved Guideline
L. Test Principle:
The Teco Rapid Fecal Occult Blood Card Test employs polyclonal and monoclonal
antibodies to detect human hemoglobin in feces. A fecal sample is collected and
placed into the fecal collection tube containing a buffer solution. The resulting fluid
with extracted hemoglobin (if any) is then added to the test device. The sample fluid
mixes with anti-hemoglobin dye-conjugate in the test membrane forming an antigen-
dye complex which migrates through the test device. The complex is captured in the
test zone by immobilized anti-hemoglobin antibodies. The captured dye-complex
becomes visible as a rose-pink band within the test zone, which indicates the test has
detected human hemoglobin. In the absence of hemoglobin no line will form in the
test zone.
A procedural control is built into the test device to indicate proper test performance.
It appears as a rose-pink sandwich dye conjugate reaction and should appear
regardless of the test result.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample			Feces in extraction buffer			Same		
Intended Use			Qualitative detection of
fecal occult blood in
feces by professional
laboratories and
physician’s offices			Same		
Extraction Buffer			PBS			Same		
Sensitivity			50 ng hHb/ml buffer			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Test Principle			Immunoassay utilizing
monoclonal and
polyclonal antibodies for
the detection of human
hemoglobin			Immunoassay utilizing
monoclonal for the
detection of human
hemoglobin		

--- Page 4 ---
A rose-pink band in the test zone and in the control zone at or before five minutes is
considered a positive result by the criteria of the test. A band only in the control zone
at five minutes is a negative result.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Fresh human hemoglobin free stool extraction specimens were spiked with
human hemoglobin at three different concentrations: 0, 100, and 1000 ng/ml.
Each specimen concentration was tested in each day for 20 days. There were
20 total replicates for each concentration specimen and the agreement was
100% at each concentration.
Reproducibility studies were also conducted at three physician office
laboratories with 120 human hemoglobin free stool extracts separated into 4
groups. Each group of specimens was spiked with 0, 50, 60, and 1000 ng/ml
of human hemoglobin. Tests were conducted by laboratory technicians with
various degrees of educational background and experience and compared to
the results of a professional user. There was 99.2% agreement between the
results from site 1 and the professional user. There was 98.3% agreement
between the results from site 2 and the professional user. There was 100%
agreement between the results from site 3 and the professional user.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Internal Control: A procedural control is built into the test device to indicate
proper test performance. It appears as a rose-pink sandwich dye conjugate
reaction and should appear regardless of the test result.
External Control: Positive and negative controls should be run to insure that
the captured and conjugated antibodies are present and reactive.
d. Detection limit:
The minimal detectable concentration of hHb is 50 ng/ml in buffer or 5ug/g in
feces.
e. Analytical specificity:
This FOB test is specific to human hemoglobin. The following substances
when spiked in both positive and negative specimens did not interfere with the
test results.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Substance Concentration (ug/ml)
Chicken Hb 500 ug/ml
Pork Hb 500 ug/ml
Horse Hb 500 ug/ml
Beef Hb 500 ug/ml
Rabbit Hb 500 ug/ml
Goat Hb 500 ug/ml
Horseradish Peroxidase 2000 ug/ml
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The Teco Rapid FOB Card Test was compared to a predicate device with 120
human hemoglobin free feces extraction specimens in house. The specimens
were divided into 6 groups containing 20 specimens. The six groups were
spiked with human hemoglobin in the following concentrations: 0, 20, 40,
50, 100, and 2000 ng/ml. The specimens in each group were further divided
into two groups: Group A was tested immediately while Group B was stored
for 10 days at 2-8°C. The total agreement was 98.3%. The positive percent
agreement was 96.3% and the negative percent agreement was 100%.
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Substance	Concentration (ug/ml)
Chicken Hb	500 ug/ml
Pork Hb	500 ug/ml
Horse Hb	500 ug/ml
Beef Hb	500 ug/ml
Rabbit Hb	500 ug/ml
Goat Hb	500 ug/ml
Horseradish Peroxidase	2000 ug/ml

--- Page 6 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6