
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K061048
Roche Diagnostics Corp. COBAS INTEGRA Glucose HK Gen. 3
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was: The reagent composition has been changed.
Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, immunoassay technology, test
protocol, performance, assay principle, cutoff level and reagents.
The modified Glucose HK Gen 3 has with-in run precision CV’s ranging from 0.41% to 0.47% for
serum and plasma, 0.64% to 1.35% for urine, and 1.13% to 1.49% for CSF; and the predicate device
has a CV of 3.8% to 4.0% listed. Glucose HK Gen 3 has a lower detection limit of 0.033 mmol/L for
serum and plasma, 0.22 mmol/L for urine, and 0.023 mmol/L for CSF. Glucose HK Gen 3 has
endogenous interferences listed for Hemolysis up to 1200 mg/dL, icterus up to 60 mg/dL, lipemia up
to 1900, and falsely low results caused by tetracycline and therapeutic concentration in urine
samples; the predicate device has no significant interferences listed for Hemolysis, icterus, lipemia,
and falsely low results may be caused by elevated pyruvate levels.
4. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
5. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.