
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K062440
B. Purpose for Submission:
The Gen-Probe APTIMA® Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae (AGC) is a
nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) intended for the qualitative detection
of ribosomal RNA from Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) in endocervical, male
urethral and vaginal swab specimens and in female and male urine specimens.
The assay originally received FDA clearance in 2005 (K043144). The current
application is for the additional indication of testing specimens collected and
processed with the Cytyc ThinPrep 2000 System. New PreservCyt labeling
for the approved ancillary liquid pap Specimen Transfer Kit is included in the
current submission.
C. Measurand:
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) ribosomal RNA
D. Type of Test:
NAAT
E. Applicant:
GEN-PROBE, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
GEN-PROBE® APTIMA® Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LSL Class II 21 CFR 866.3390 Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The APTIMA® Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a target amplification nucleic
acid probe test that utilizes target capture for the in vitro qualitative detection of
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LSL			Class II			21 CFR 866.3390			Microbiology (83)		

--- Page 2 ---
ribosomal RNA (rRNA) from Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) to aid in the diagnosis
of gonococcal urogenital disease. The assay may be used to test the following
specimens from symptomatic individuals: clinician-collected endocervical,
vaginal and male urethral swab specimens; and female and male urine specimens.
The assay may be used to test the following specimens from asymptomatic
individuals: clinician-collected endocervical and vaginal swab specimens; and
patient-collected vaginal swab specimens1 and female and male urine specimens.
The assay is also intended for use with the testing of gynecological specimens,
from both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, collected in the PreservCyt
Solution and processed with the Cytyc ThinPrep 2000 System.
1Patient-collected vaginal swab specimens are an option for screening women
when a pelvic exam is not otherwise indicated. The vaginal swab specimen
collection kit is not for home use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
This device is for prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Gen-Probe DTS System
I. Device Description:
The GEN-PROBE® APTIMA® Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a nucleic acid
amplification test (NAAT). See Test Principle below for more details.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Addition of a PreservCyt (PC) specimen indication to the previously cleared device.
Collection device and media are different, as are specimen handling and storage
conditions.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
The GEN-PROBE APTIMA Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae combines the
technologies of target capture, Transcription-Mediated Amplification (TMA), and
Hybridization Protection Assay (HPA). During target capture, rRNA molecules
2

--- Page 3 ---
are isolated from specimens by capture oligomers on magnetic microparticles.
After target capture, the specimens are ready for TMA. The GEN-PROBE
APTIMA Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae reaction replicates a specific region of
the 16S rRNA from N. gonorrhoeae via DNA intermediates. Detection of the
rRNA amplicons is achieved using a single-stranded chemiluminescent DNA
probe, which is labeled with an acridinium ester molecule. The labeled DNA
probe combines with amplicon to form stable RNA:DNA hybrids and light
emitted from the labeled RNA:DNA hybrids is reported as Relative Light Units
(RLU). Assay results are determined by a cut-off based on the RLU.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
PreservCyt specimen within-laboratory precision with the APTIMA GC
Assay was determined by spiking PreservCyt vials with 20 GC CFU per vial
(0.1 CFU per reaction) and 100 GC CFU per vial (0.5 CFU per reaction).
Vials containing 10,000 GC CFU per vial (50 CFU per reaction) and unspiked
PreservCyt vials were tested as positive and negative controls. Ten vials
spiked at each CFU level and ten unspiked vials were divided between two
operators. The operators vortexed the vials and then transferred 14 aliquots
(1.0 mL each) per vial into 14 APTIMA Transfer Tubes as per the APTIMA
Specimen Transfer Kit package insert. The operators were blinded to the
samples' titers. Each of the resulting Pap-STM samples was tested once in the
APTIMA GC Assay. A total of five runs were performed over a five day
period for 140 results at the 0.1, 0.5, and 50 CFU level. There were 136 valid
results and 4 invalid results for the negative control panel. The invalid results
were due to a misplacement of a TTU in the Leader HC+. The results are
summarized below:
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not Applicable
d. Detection limit:
A study was performed that showed the AGC Assay detected GC cells at the
analytical sensitivity claim (50 CFU/assay) for 3 replicates of each of 20 GC
clinical isolates tested in PC media. See results below:
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Neisseria species were used to evaluate the analytical specificity of the AGC
Assay. A total of 47 culture isolates were tested in the liquid Pap media.
5

--- Page 6 ---
None of the culture isolates produced a positive result in the AGC Assay. See
results below:
6

--- Page 7 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
7

--- Page 8 ---
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
A prospective multi-center clinical study was conducted to evaluate the use of
the PreservCyt transport medium (a component of the ThinPrep 2000 System)
as an alternative medium for gynecological specimens for the detection of N.
gonorrhoeae by the APTIMA GC Assay. One thousand six hundred forty-
seven (1,647) symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects attending OB/GYN,
family planning, public health, women's, and STD clinics were enrolled and
evaluated in the clinical study. Of these subjects, 1,288 were asymptomatic
subjects and 359 were symptomatic subjects (Table 5b). Subjects were
enrolled from sites with GC prevalence that ranged from 0.0% to 5.0% (Table
6b).
Two specimens were collected from each eligible subject: one PreservCyt
liquid Pap specimen and one endocervical swab specimen. PreservCyt liquid
Pap specimens were collected with the spatula/cyto-brush or a broom-like
brush cervical sampling device. The distribution of cervical sampling devices
is summarized in Table 4 by specimen collection site and overall.
PreservCyt liquid Pap specimens were processed in accordance with the
ThinPrep 2000 Processor Operator's Manual and APTIMA SpecimenTransfer
Kit package insert. After processing the PreservCyt liquid Pap specimen with
the ThinPrep 2000 Processor, the specimen was transferred into the APTIMA
Specimen Transfer Kit for testing with the APTIMA GC Assay.
Sensitivity and specificity of the APTIMA GC Assay in PreservCyt liquid Pap
specimens were calculated by comparing results to the patient infected status.
The algorithm included APTIMA Combo 2 Assay and APTIMA GC Assay
results in endocervical swab specimens. Both reference NAATs were
required to be positive to establish an infected patient status. At least one
reference NAAT was required to be negative to establish a non-infected
patient status. The one equivocal result that was obtained from a reference
NAAT was considered to be discordant with the investigative assay for the
purpose of calculating performance, and thus the patient infected status was
categorized as non-infected (n=1). Table 8 summarizes the frequency of test
outcomes for the endocervical swab specimens tested with the APTIMA
Combo 2 Assay and APTIMA GC Assay.
Table 5b shows the sensitivities and specificities of the APTIMA GC Assay
by symptom status and overall. Overall sensitivity was 92.3% (12/13). In
symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects, sensitivities were 100% (7/7) and
83.3% (5/6), respectively. Overall specificity was 99.8% (1630/1634). In
symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects, specificities were 99.4% (350/352)
and 99.8% (1280/1282), respectively.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Table 6b shows the sensitivities and specificities of the APTIMA GC Assay
by specimen collection site and overall. Sensitivities ranged from 80.0% to
100%. Specificities ranged from 99.0% to 100%.
9

--- Page 10 ---
10

--- Page 11 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of N. gonorrhoeae disease in patient populations depends on risk
factors such as age, gender, the presence of symptoms, the type of clinic, and the test
method. A summary of the prevalence of N. gonorrhoeae as determined by the
11

--- Page 12 ---
APTIMA® Assay for Neisseria gonorrhoeae (AGC) results on PreservCyt liquid Pap
specimens is shown below by clinical site and overall.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
12