
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062199
B. Purpose for Submission:
510(k) premarket notification to manufacture and market the Dimension Vista™
System Drug 3 Calibrator (DRUG 3 CAL-KC430).
C. Measurand:
Calibrator materials for cyclosporine (CSA)
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator materials
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ System Drug 3 Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.3200 Clinical toxicology calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
DLJ – Calibrator, drug specific
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The DRUG 3 CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of
cyclosporine (CSA) method on the Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Behring Dimension Vista System
I. Device Description:
DRUG 3 CAL is a frozen, liquid, human whole blood hemolysate containing
cyclosporine. The kit consists of six vials, three vials of Calibrator A, and three vials
of Calibrator B which are frozen. The volume for Calibrator A is 2.0 mL per vial and
for Calibrator B is 1.5 mL per vial. Intermediate levels are automatically prepared
and corresponding values calculated by the Dimension Vista™ System. Each donor
unit used in the preparation of this material was tested by FDA approved methods for
the presence of antibodies to HIV-1, HIV-2, Hepatitis B Surface Antigen and
antibody to HCV and found to be negative.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® CSA Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k011112
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device: Predicate:
Dimension Vista™ Dimension® CSA
System Drug 3 Calibrator Calibrator k011112
Analyte Cyclosporine Cyclosporine
Form Frozen Frozen
Traceability USP Cyclosporine A. USP Cyclosporine A
Matrix Human whole blood Human whole blood
containing cyclosporine. containing cyclosporine.
Differences
Item Device: Predicate:
Dimension Vista™ Dimension® CSA
System Drug 3 Calibrator Calibrator k011112
Intended use The DRUG 3 CAL is an The CSA Calibrator is an
in vitro diagnostic in vitro diagnostic
product for the product intended to be
calibration of used to calibrate the
Cyclosporine (CSA) Cyclosporine (CSA)
method on the Dimension method for the
Vista™ System. Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.
Number of Two levels. Intermediate Five Levels.
Levels levels are automatically
prepared and
corresponding values
calculated by the
Dimension Vista™
System.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In
Vitro Diagnostic Calibrators; Final
FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels and in
Labeling of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use
FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA - Class II Special Controls Guidance
Document: Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus Assays
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Device:			Predicate:	
		Dimension Vista™			Dimension® CSA	
		System Drug 3 Calibrator			Calibrator k011112	
Analyte	Cyclosporine			Cyclosporine		
Form	Frozen			Frozen		
Traceability	USP Cyclosporine A.			USP Cyclosporine A		
Matrix	Human whole blood
containing cyclosporine.			Human whole blood
containing cyclosporine.		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
Item		Device:			Predicate:	
		Dimension Vista™			Dimension® CSA	
		System Drug 3 Calibrator			Calibrator k011112	
Intended use	The DRUG 3 CAL is an
in vitro diagnostic
product for the
calibration of
Cyclosporine (CSA)
method on the Dimension
Vista™ System.			The CSA Calibrator is an
in vitro diagnostic
product intended to be
used to calibrate the
Cyclosporine (CSA)
method for the
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.		
Number of
Levels	Two levels. Intermediate
levels are automatically
prepared and
corresponding values
calculated by the
Dimension Vista™
System.			Five Levels.		

--- Page 4 ---
CEN 13640 Stability testing of In-Vitro Diagnostic Devices
ISO 14971:2000 Medical devices -Application of Risk Management to Medical
Devices
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The assigned values of the DRUG 3 CAL are traceable to United States
Pharmacopeia Cyclosporine A Reference Material.
Value Assignment
Cyclosporine Reference Material is weighed into drug free whole blood
hemolysate to prepare master pools at five levels and stored at -70°C. The
verification of the Master Pool values is performed against weighed in Master
Pool values and LC/MS testing. The stock solution is made by adding
cyclosporine gravimetrically to stock solution at target concentrations. The
commercial lot is made by adding calculated quantities of stock solution to
drug free whole blood hemolysate to target concentrations for each of the
calibrator levels. The concentration of each level is verified by using an
instrument. Nominal values are assigned to the commercial lot.
The nominal values for each level of the commercial lot are verified using an
instrument calibrated with Master Pools.
Stability
Target shelf life for the Dimension Vista™ System Drug 3 Calibrator is 12
months. Calibrator shelf life is determined by comparing results of the
product stored at -20°C with the reference (control) stored at -70°C. The
method is calibrated from this stored reference. The -20°C material values are
recovered versus the calibration. Recovery versus time is monitored and
percent change over time is determined. Shelf-life stability (expiration) dating
assignment at commercialization reflects the real-time data on file at Dade
Behring, Inc.
4

--- Page 5 ---
A vial punctured by the instrument and stored on board is stable for seven
days. An open vial not on instrument, but recapped and stored in a refrigerator
is stable for 31 days. For testing, vials are opened /punctured on day zero. A
quantity sufficient for multiple calibrations is removed and the vials are
recapped and stored at 2 – 8 °C. Opened/punctured vials are tested on days 8,
15, 22 and 32 versus freshly opened vials.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6