
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062668
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control set for Cortisol, Digoxin, Estradiol, Ferritin, Folate, Free T4, FSH,
hCG, LH, Progesterone, Prolactin, Testosterone, Total PSA, Total T3, Total T4, TSH,
and Vitamin B12.
D. Type of Test:
Quality control material
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific, Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Audit™ MicroCV™ Immunoassay Linearity Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR 862.1660, Quality control material (assayed and unassayed).
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY, multi-analyte controls, all kinds (assayed and unassayed)

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Immunosassay Linearity Set consists of five levels in
Human and Bovine serum albumin matrix. Each level contains the following
analytes: cortisol, digoxin, estradiol, ferritin, folate, free T4, FSH, hCG, LH,
progesterone, prolactin, testosterone, total PSA, total T3, total T4, TSH, and
vitamin B12. The five levels demonstrate a linear relationship to each other for
their respective analytes, reagents, and instruments.
This product may be used for proficiency testing in interlaboratory surveys and to
perform CLIA directed calibration verification for these same analytes with
similar reagents on similar instrumentation in accordance with current CLIA-88
guidelines and regulations.
In addition, level A-E of this product may be used as unassayed quality control
material for these analytes or as an assayed quality control material for the
analyzer systems specified in the package insert. It is not intended to be used as
an assayed quality control material for any other analyzer systems.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
This device may be used as an assayed quality control material only for the
instrument system specified in the package insert.
I. Device Description:
The Audit MicroCV Immunoassay Linearity Set is a human and bovine serum
albumin based, lyophilized, five level set of QC material, with each level containing
17 analytes and a preservative. Level A is near the lower limit of instruments and
Level E is near the upper limit of instruments. Levels B-D are related by linear
dilution of Level A and Level E.

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry Linearity Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042318
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device: Predicate:
Audit MicroCV Audit MicroCV General
Immunoassay Linearity Set Chemistry Linearity Set
Intended use Linearity Material or Linearity Material or
Assayed QC Material Assayed QC Material
(for analyzer specified in (for analyzer specified in
package insert only) package insert only)
Number of Levels 5 5
per set
Contents 5 x 5 ml 5 x 5 ml
Form Lyophilized Lyophilized
Preservative Yes Yes
Storage 2 to 8°C 2 to 8°C
Differences
Item Device: Predicate:
Audit MicroCV Audit MicroCV General
Immunoassay Linearity Set Chemistry Linearity Set
Number of 17 30
Analytes per Vial
Matrix Human and bovine Serum Human Based Serum
Albumin based
Analytes Cortisol, Digoxin, Estradiol, Acid Phosphatase, Albumin,
Ferritin, Folate, Free T4, Alkaline Phosphatase, ALT,
FSH, hCG, LH, Amylase, AST, Bilirubin
Progesterone, Prolactin, (Total and Direct), BUN,
Testosterone, Total PSA, Calcium, Chloride,
Total T3, Total T4, TSH, and Cholesterol, CO2, Creatine
Vitamin B12 Kinase, Creatinine, Gamma-
GT, Glucose, HDL
Cholesterol, Iron, LDH,
LDL Cholesterol, Lactate,

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Device:			Predicate:	
		Audit MicroCV			Audit MicroCV General	
		Immunoassay Linearity Set			Chemistry Linearity Set	
Intended use	Linearity Material or
Assayed QC Material
(for analyzer specified in
package insert only)			Linearity Material or
Assayed QC Material
(for analyzer specified in
package insert only)		
Number of Levels
per set	5			5		
Contents	5 x 5 ml			5 x 5 ml		
Form	Lyophilized			Lyophilized		
Preservative	Yes			Yes		
Storage	2 to 8°C			2 to 8°C		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
Item		Device:			Predicate:	
		Audit MicroCV			Audit MicroCV General	
		Immunoassay Linearity Set			Chemistry Linearity Set	
Number of
Analytes per Vial	17			30		
Matrix	Human and bovine Serum
Albumin based			Human Based Serum		
Analytes	Cortisol, Digoxin, Estradiol,
Ferritin, Folate, Free T4,
FSH, hCG, LH,
Progesterone, Prolactin,
Testosterone, Total PSA,
Total T3, Total T4, TSH, and
Vitamin B12			Acid Phosphatase, Albumin,
Alkaline Phosphatase, ALT,
Amylase, AST, Bilirubin
(Total and Direct), BUN,
Calcium, Chloride,
Cholesterol, CO2, Creatine
Kinase, Creatinine, Gamma-
GT, Glucose, HDL
Cholesterol, Iron, LDH,
LDL Cholesterol, Lactate,		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device: Predicate:
Audit MicroCV Audit MicroCV General
Immunoassay Linearity Set Chemistry Linearity Set
Lipase, Magnesium,
Phosphorus, Potassium,
Sodium, Total Protein,
Triglycerides and Uric Acid
Reconstituted 5 days at 2 to 8°C 7 days at 2 to 8°C except for
Stability enzymes and bilirubin
which are 48 hours
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Immunoassay Linearity Set is prepared such that the
analyte concentrations are equidistant across levels A – E, with Level A
containing the lowest concentrations and Level E the highest concentrations.
A linearity study was performed for each analyte by measuring all five levels
and calculating an R2 value and comparing the measured value of each control
level to the target value assigned to each level during the value assignment
process (see Value Assignment below). The R2 value and the measured vs.
target values met the sponsor’s acceptance criteria for each analyte.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The base matrix consists of human serum albumin, bovine serum albumin,
and preservatives. The analytes are derived from both human and non-human
sources and were obtained from commercial vendors. The low and high level
analytes were adjusted to within the desired target range of each assay. The
remaining 3 points are dilutions of the low and high levels.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences						
Item		Device:			Predicate:	
		Audit MicroCV			Audit MicroCV General	
		Immunoassay Linearity Set			Chemistry Linearity Set	
				Lipase, Magnesium,
Phosphorus, Potassium,
Sodium, Total Protein,
Triglycerides and Uric Acid		
Reconstituted
Stability	5 days at 2 to 8°C			7 days at 2 to 8°C except for
enzymes and bilirubin
which are 48 hours		

--- Page 5 ---
Shelf Life Stability
The sponsor’s unopened bottle shelf life stability claim is two years from the
date of manufacture. All analytes were placed on heat stress stability in
closed bottles at 37°C and tested on day 0 and day 20. The sponsor supplied a
Heat Stress Stability Prediction chart that allowed an analyte heat stressed for
17.5 days at 37°C to predict two year stability at 2-8°C. After 20 days at 37°C
all analytes met the manufacturer’s acceptance criteria for deviation from day
0. Real time stability studies are on going to support the accelerated studies.
Reconstituted Stability
The sponsor claims the reconstituted control is stable for 5 days when stored
tightly capped at 2-8°C. All analytes were reconstituted on day 0 and stored
in tightly capped bottles at 2-8°C for five days. All analytes were tested on
day 0 and day 5 and met the manufacturer’s acceptance criteria for deviation
from day 0.
Value Assignment
Each analyte was measured multiple times and the mean value of each analyte
was used to establish target values at each level. The target ranges were
calculated as ± 20% of the target value. These values are only applicable for
the instrument specified for each analyte in the Instructions for Use.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable

--- Page 6 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.