
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062545
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Breath alcohol
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative (semiconductor oxide sensor)
E. Applicant:
Resource Management International, LLC
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RMI LCD Alcohol Tester
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3050
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
DJZ
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The device measures alcohol in human breath. Readings obtained by this device are used
as an aid in the detection of alcohol intoxication.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
The device contains a semiconductor oxide sensor to detect the presence of alcohol.
The display window shows the breath alcohol concentration in increments of 0.01% in
the range 0.00% to 0.20% BAC. Characters are used to instruct the user and display the
status of the device. The device also includes a beeper to give the user audible prompts.
To use the device, the power on/off button is depressed. The device will turn on and the
display will show a countdown to indicate the warm-up. When ready for use the device
will beep twice and the LCD “BLOW” character appears, indicating the unit is ready for
testing. Users are instructed to exhale slowly and consistently into the sensor slots at the
1

--- Page 2 ---
front of the unit for at three seconds and the test results will appear within 8 seconds. The
BAC will appear on the LCD; after 30 seconds, the device will turn off automatically.
Two replaceable AAA batteries power the device.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AlcoMate CA2000 Digital Alcohol Detector
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k041334
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Measure alcohol in human Same
breath.
Intended User General Public Same
Sensor Type Semiconductor-Oxide Same
Measurement Range 0.00 – 0.20 % BAC 0.00 - 0.40 % BAC
Display 3 Digit LED Same
Construction Plastic Case with Internal Same
Circuit Board
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Blow Time 3 seconds 5 seconds
Power Source 2 AAA Batteries replaceable Single 9 V Battery
replaceable
Warm-up Time 5-15 seconds 15-60 Seconds
Dimensions 3.5” x 1.25” 5” x 2.55”
Weight 35 grams 120 grams
Mouthpiece None Required Replaceable
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. IEC 60601 –1, Safety of medical electrical equipment, Part 1, General requirements
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities			
Item		Device	Predicate
Intended Use		Measure alcohol in human
breath.	Same
Intended User		General Public	Same
Sensor Type		Semiconductor-Oxide	Same
Measurement Range		0.00 – 0.20 % BAC	0.00 - 0.40 % BAC
Display		3 Digit LED	Same
Construction		Plastic Case with Internal
Circuit Board	Same
Differences			
Item	Device		Predicate
Blow Time	3 seconds		5 seconds
Power Source	2 AAA Batteries replaceable		Single 9 V Battery
replaceable
Warm-up Time	5-15 seconds		15-60 Seconds
Dimensions	3.5” x 1.25”		5” x 2.55”
Weight	35 grams		120 grams
Mouthpiece	None Required		Replaceable

--- Page 3 ---
for safety including amendment 1 and 2. (Device is battery operated, so requirements
related to mains connection do not apply).
2. IEC 60601-2 , Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of medical devices
3. Department of Transportation National Highway Traffic Safety Administration;
Model Specifications for Screening Devices to Measure Alcohol in Bodily Fluids.
Docket No. 94-004.
L. Test Principle:
The LCD Alcohol Tester is designed to measure deep lung air to test for the presence of
alcohol in the blood. The relationship between alcohol concentration in deep lung air and
blood is established by Henry’s Law in a ratio of 1:2100. The tin dioxide semiconductor gas
sensor is sensitive to changes in conductivity due to the presence of alcohol in the breath.
This change in conductivity due to the alcohol can be quantitated and converted to %
concentration of alcohol.
The device contains a semiconductor oxide sensor to detect the presence of alcohol. In the
absence of alcohol, while the heater is warming up, oxygen molecules in the air are
chemisorbed on the surface of the particles, trapping the electrons in the semiconducting
material. When it is exposed to an organic vapor such as ethanol, the chemisorbed oxygen is
reduced and releases the trapped electrons. The flow of electrons causes a decrease of
resistance, which is measured and converted to % BAC.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The sponsor performed precision and accuracy testing in-house using blood alcohol
concentration levels recommended by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. These requirements (referred to as DOT Model Specifications for
Screening Devices to Measure Alcohol in Bodily Fluids) consist of 20 trials at a
Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) of 0.008%, 20 trials at a BAC of 0.032%, and
20 trials at a BAC of 0.000%. In addition, the sponsor conducted 20 trials at a BAC
of 0.08%. Blood Alcohol Concentrations are simulated in breath by a Breath Alcohol
Sample Simulator (BASS), which provides an alcohol-in-air test sample with known
alcohol concentrations, flow rate, and air composition. The acceptance criteria for the
Model Specifications are: not more than one negative result at 0.032% BAC, not
more than one positive result at 0.008% BAC, and not more than one negative greater
than zero and no positives at 0.000 BAC. For the purposes of this study, a BAC of
0.020% is used to distinguish a positive from a negative result. The RMI device had
no negatives at 0.08%, and 0.032% BAC, no positives at 0.008% BAC, and no
positives or non-zero negatives at 0.000% BAC.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
This device reports concentrations from 0.00% to 0.20%. However, DOT Model
Specifications require accuracy testing at concentrations of 0.000%, 0.008% and
3

--- Page 4 ---
0.032% BAC only; therefore true linearity was not evaluated. This device
demonstrated acceptable performance according to the DOT Model Specifications as
described above.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
This device is traceable to a commercially available certified alcohol reference
solution at a concentration of 0.06% BAC. This solution is used to calibrate the
devices during manufacture.
d. Detection limit:
The DOT Model Specifications for screening devices do not specifically address the
detection limit of breath alcohol devices. However, the devices must be tested at a
BAC of zero (blank reading) to assess the possibility of false positives. This consists
of 20 trials under normal laboratory conditions at a BAC of 0.000%. Non-alcoholic
human breath is to be used as the sample. The sponsor tested twenty “zero”
concentration samples using non-alcoholic human breath. No false positives were
produced using these samples.
e. Analytical specificity:
The DOT Model Specifications for screening devices require testing with cigarette
smoke to assess any possible interference. The manufacturer’s labeling does not
instruct the user to wait a specific time after consuming cigarettes before taking a
reading, therefore the initial reading was taken within 1 minute as specified in the
DOT model specifications. The subject was then asked to smoke another inhalation
and repeat the test to produce a total of five trials. The RMI device had no positive
results in this trial. Other potential interferents were not evaluated.
Temperature:
The DOT Model Specifications require testing at 10ºC and 40ºC to assess any
possible effects of temperature. At 10 ºC, 20 trials are required at 0.008% BAC and
20 trials are required at 0.032% BAC. The RMI device had no positive results at
0.008 BAC and no non-positive results at 0.032% and 0.08% BAC. At 40 ºC, the
RMI device had no positive results at 0.008% BAC and no non-positive results at
0.032% and 0.08% BAC.
Vibration:
The DOT Model Specifications requires vibration testing to assess any possible
vibrational effects at 10 to 30 hertz and 30 to 60 hertz. Twenty trials are required at
0.008% BAC and 0.032% BAC. The RMI device had no positive results at 0.008%
BAC and no non-positive results at 0.032% and 0.08% BAC.
f. Assay Cutoff
For the purposes of performance testing, a BAC cutoff of 0.20% was used
to distinguish positive from negative samples. The sponsor states in the labeling
that consumption of alcohol in any amount may impair the ability to operate a
4

--- Page 5 ---
motor vehicle.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The accuracy of this device is partially addressed in the precision section above. In
addition, the sponsor conducted a consumer study comparing the device to an
evidentiary device. The purpose of the study was to determine if consumers could
correctly use and interpret the device using only the supplied User’s Manual, and to
compare the results to a comparator device. The field test was performed involving
40 people, and the volunteers ranged in age from 21 to 64 years of age. Each
participant took their breath alcohol reading and recorded the result. Afterward, each
participant were administered a breath alcohol test using the comparator device. The
breath alcohol concentrations ranged from a BAC of 0.000 to 0.19%. Linear
regression of the data shows a slope of 1.02267, y-intercept of -0.002 and a
correlation coefficient of 0.91.
The participants answered a survey to determine how well they understood the user
manual and how to use the device. The results are presented below:
Survey Strongly Disagree Neither Agree Strongly
Issue Disagree agree or Agree
disagree
I found the 0 0 0 10 30
device easy
to use
I 0 0 0 15 25
understood
the
instructions
and how to
interpret
the results
The participants were asked to interpret their result based on the instructions in
the labeling below, and all of the participants correctly identified the range of
concentrations listed in the labeling.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Survey
Issue	Strongly
Disagree	Disagree	Neither
agree or
disagree	Agree	Strongly
Agree
I found the
device easy
to use	0	0	0	10	30
I
understood
the
instructions
and how to
interpret
the results	0	0	0	15	25

--- Page 6 ---
Less than 0.04 to less than 0.08% 0.08% or greater (driving
0.04% (driving skills may be skills are always impaired at
(driving skills impaired at this level) this level)
may be
impaired even
at low levels)
The sponsor assessed the reading level of the labeling by using the
SMOG readability formula; the SMOG calculation indicated the labeling was at
an 8th grade reading level.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Using these types of devices, alcohol is not detectable in the breath of persons who have
not ingested alcohol.
N. Instrument Name:
RMI LCD Alcohol Tester
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
User starts the test by pressing the on button. The device turns on and the display
shows a countdown to indicate the warm-up. When ready for use the device beeps
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Less than
0.04%
(driving skills
may be
impaired even
at low levels)	0.04 to less than 0.08%
(driving skills may be
impaired at this level)	0.08% or greater (driving
skills are always impaired at
this level)

--- Page 7 ---
twice and the LCD “BLOW” character appears indicating the unit is ready for testing.
Users exhale slowly and consistently into the sensor slots at the front of the unit for at
three seconds and the test results will appear within 8 seconds. The BAC appears on the
LCD; after 30 seconds, the device automatically turns off.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes X or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no mechanism to identify the specimen
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The user obtains a breath sample by exhaling into the device.
5. Calibration:
Factory calibrated
6. Quality Control:
Typically, for theses types of devices, there are neither external quality control (QC)
materials nor electronic QC functions.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7