
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062501
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification solutions for Triiodothyronine (T3), Thyroxine (T4), human
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), and Cortisol.
D. Type of Test:
Calibration verification
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862. 1660, Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product Code:
JJX
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use
2. Indication(s) for use:
VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test Set solutions are for in
vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative determination of linearity, calibration
verification and verification of reportable range in chemistry systems for the

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
following analytes: Triiodothyronine (T3), Thyroxine (T4), human Thyroid
Stimulating Hormone (TSH), and Cortisol.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Automated, semi-automated, and manual clinical chemistry systems
I. Device Description:
VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test Set contains T3, T4, human TSH,
and Cortisol in human serum matrix. Multiple levels are provided to establish the
relationship between theoretical and actual performance of each of the included
analytes. Each test set consists of one bottle each of six (6) levels including zero.
Each bottle of Levels 0 through 5 contains 3.0 milliliters. This material is stable until
the date printed on the label when stored as directed.
All human source material was tested and found to be negative for HIV ½, HBsAg,
and RPR by FDA approved methods.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Thyroid CAL●VER
2. Predicate K number(s):
k992034
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For in vitro diagnostic use For in vitro diagnostic use
in the quantitative in the quantitative
determination of linearity, determination of linearity,
calibration verification and calibration verification,
verification of reportable verification of Analytical
range in automated semi- Measurement Range
automated and manual (AMR), and verification of
chemistry systems reportable ranges in
automated semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems
Matrix Human serum Human serum
Storage -10 to -200C -10 to -200C

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			For in vitro diagnostic use
in the quantitative
determination of linearity,
calibration verification and
verification of reportable
range in automated semi-
automated and manual
chemistry systems			For in vitro diagnostic use
in the quantitative
determination of linearity,
calibration verification,
verification of Analytical
Measurement Range
(AMR), and verification of
reportable ranges in
automated semi-automated
and manual chemistry
systems		
Matrix			Human serum			Human serum		
Storage			-10 to -200C			-10 to -200C		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test Set solutions are tested during
manufacturing with standards traceable to National Institute for Standards and
Technology (NIST) Standard Reference Material (SRM) where available. For
analytes where NIST materials are not available, primary analytical standards are
used.
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were described and found to be
acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparaison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable)
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirement of 21 CFR part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.