
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062932
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Not applicable (device is intended to be used to collect whole blood)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Ahlstrom Filtration LLC
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Ahlstrom 226 Specimen Collection Paper
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1675
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JKA
4. Panel:
75 (Clinical Chemistry)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Ahlstrom 226 specimen collection paper is intended to be used as a medium to
collect and transport blood specimen spots to a laboratory. The 226 paper will be
in the format of a printed card that may be incorporated along with a tear-apart
form for demographic information.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Refer to Intended Use above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
1

--- Page 2 ---
Prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
Ahlstrom 226 Specimen Collection Paper is made from 100% pure cotton linters and
provides a uniform surface for the collection of blood spots. A drop of blood is
applied to the filter paper and allowed to soak through the paper. The sample is then
air dried and sent to a laboratory for analysis.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Whatman Body Fluid Collection Paper
2. Predicate K number(s):
k932661
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Device Predicate
Intended to be used as a
medium to collect and
Intended Use transport blood specimen Same
spots to a laboratory for
further testing
Matrix Whole blood Same
Storage conditions for Store in a cool dry space
Same
unused cards away from direct sunlight.
Specimen drying time 3 – 4 hours 3 hours minimum
NCCLS/CLSI LA4 – A3:
Blood Collection on Filter
Standard referenced Same
Paper for Newborn
Screening Programs
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Intended to be used as a
medium to collect and
transport blood specimen
spots to a laboratory for
further testing			Same		
Matrix			Whole blood			Same		
Storage conditions for
unused cards			Store in a cool dry space
away from direct sunlight.			Same		
Specimen drying time			3 – 4 hours			3 hours minimum		
Standard referenced			NCCLS/CLSI LA4 – A3:
Blood Collection on Filter
Paper for Newborn
Screening Programs			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS/CLSI LA4-A3: Blood Collection on Filter Paper for Newborn Screening
Programs; Approved Standard—Third Edition
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable (device may be used to collect whole blood).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. This device is intended for the collection of whole blood
only.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
The FDA recognized consensus standard for this device is NCCLS/CLSI
LA4-A3: Blood Collection on Filter Paper for Newborn Screening Programs;
Approved Standard—Third Edition. This standard describes four physical
3

--- Page 4 ---
properties of the filter paper and acceptance criteria for each:
1. Absorption capacity as measured by serum retention volume of a 1/8
inch paper punch taken from a dried blood spot. A range of 1.37 –
1.71 µL is considered acceptable.
Ahlstrom Lot 1 mean 1.477 µL
Ahlstrom Lot 2 mean 1.443 µL
2. Homogeneity of the filter paper lot (spot-to-spot and sheet-to-sheet
variability). To perform this test, blood samples tagged with 125I
labeled T4 are applied to the filter paper. Samples (punches) of the
filter paper are removed from pre-defined areas within the same lot
and between lots. By measuring the amount of 125I labeled T4, the
homogeneity of the lot is calculated using a hierarchical, nested
analysis-of-variance technique. An F-test is used to test equivalence
of the mean values of the lots of paper. A p value of greater than 0.05
is considered acceptable.
Ahlstrom Lot 1 p = 0.937
Ahlstrom Lot 2 p = 0.607
3. Diameter of the circle for the dried blood aliquot. A range of 15 – 17
mm left to right and top to bottom is considered acceptable.
Ahlstrom Lot 1 mean 15.98 mm
Ahlstrom Lot 2 mean 16.75 mm
4. Absorption time for a 100 µL blood aliquot. A range of 5 – 30
seconds is considered acceptable.
Ahlstrom Lot 1 mean 7.88 seconds
Ahlstrom Lot 2 mean 12.74 seconds
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4