
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K062840
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Protein C
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Biosite Incorporated
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Triage® Protein C Controls
Triage® Protein C Calibration Verification Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425, Multipurpose System for In-Vitro Coagulation Studies
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN, Plasma, Coagulation Control
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Triage Protein C Controls are assayed material to be used with the Triage
Protein C Test to assist the laboratory in monitoring test performance.
The Triage Protein C Calibration Verification Controls may be used to validate
the performance of the Triage Protein C Test throughout the measurable range of
the assay.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Triage Protein C Controls are assayed material to be used with the Triage
Protein C Test to assist the laboratory in monitoring test performance.
The Triage Protein C Calibration Verification Controls may be used to validate
the performance of the Triage Protein C Test throughout the measurable range of
the assay.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
To be used with the Triage Protein C Test. They are not calibrators and are not to
be used to calibrate the Triage Protein C Test. The results of the quality control
testing do not impact direct patient care and should not influence clinical decision
making process the physician uses to make clinical diagnosis for the patient.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
The Triage Protein C Controls 1 and 2, and Triage Protein C Calibration Verification
Controls Levels A, B, and C are single-use, 0.25 mL unit dose liquid external quality
control materials prepared with concentrated purified Protein C in human citrated
plasma at defined levels. They are supplied in 0.23 mL polypropylene vials and
stored frozen at < -20oC.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Triage® BNP (B-Type Natriuretic Peptide) Controls
PrognostiX CardioMPO™ Control Kit
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K000230, K050029
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Triage® Triage® Protein C Triage® BNP PrognostiX
Protein C Calibration CardioMPO™
Controls Verification
Intended use To assist the To assist the To assist the To use as an
laboratory laboratory in laboratory in assayed control
monitoring validating the monitoring the sample to monitor
test performance of the accuracy and and evaluate
performance Triage Protein C Test precision of the precision and
of the Triage throughout the Triage BNP accuracy of the
Protein C Test measurable range of Test. CardioMPO Test.
the assay.
Form Liquid Same Same Same
Storage ≤ - 20oC Same Same Same
(unopened)
RT Claim 30 minutes Same Same N/A
Levels 2 3 2 3
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analytes Protein C Protein C BNP MPO
Matrix Citrated Same EDTA Human Human Serum
Human Plasma Plasma
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
EP5-A2 Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods:
Approved Guideline – Second Edition, NCCLS
L. Test Principle:
Control samples are to be used in place of patient samples. Approximately 0.25 mL of
the control material is added to the sample port on the Triage Protein C Test
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
	Item	Device		Predicate		
		Triage®
Protein C
Controls	Triage® Protein C
Calibration
Verification	Triage® BNP	PrognostiX
CardioMPO™	
Intended use		To assist the
laboratory
monitoring
test
performance
of the Triage
Protein C Test	To assist the
laboratory in
validating the
performance of the
Triage Protein C Test
throughout the
measurable range of
the assay.	To assist the
laboratory in
monitoring the
accuracy and
precision of the
Triage BNP
Test.	To use as an
assayed control
sample to monitor
and evaluate
precision and
accuracy of the
CardioMPO Test.	
Form		Liquid	Same	Same	Same	
Storage
(unopened)		≤ - 20oC	Same	Same	Same	
RT Claim		30 minutes	Same	Same	N/A	
Levels		2	3	2	3	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
	Item	Device		Predicate		
Analytes		Protein C	Protein C	BNP	MPO	
Matrix		Citrated
Human Plasma	Same	EDTA Human
Plasma	Human Serum	

--- Page 4 ---
Cartridge. The Control sample reacts with the Protein C antibody conjugate within
the reaction chamber of the Test Cartridge. The Test Cartridge is inserted into the
Triage Meter. The Meter automatically performs the Protein C analysis after the
sample has reacted with reagents contained within the Protein C Test Cartridge. Total
test time approximately 15 minutes. The result is displayed on the Meter screen and
can be printed. Internal assay controls (positive and negative controls) and automatic
endpoint detection technology is used to indicate assay completion.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A study was performed using 240 control samples. The samples, consisting of
the Low Level (1.4 µg/ml), Medium Level (2.4 µg /ml) and the High Level
(4.0 µg /ml) were tested in duplicates, twice a day, for 20 days at each of three
testing sites. Testing was conducted by one operator at each site using the
same single lot of Triage Protein C test reagent and one Triage Meter. The
total Coefficient of Variation varied from 11% to 17%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Value assignment:
The concentration of bulk Protein C solution is verified. The control materials
are tested twice per day over a two day period (replicates of eight using eight
Triage Protein C Test lots in each assay run). The results are averaged
together to yield an overall Protein C concentration for the bulk solution that
must fall within a pre-defined specification.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
An open vial stability study was performed using Controls 1 (Calibration
Verification Control Level A) and Control 2 (Calibration Verification Control
Level B) using three lots of product to support the one hour time point
specified in the package insert.
A closed vial stability study was performed using three lots of Protein C High
and Low Controls to determine shelf-life stability when stored at < 20oC.
Results demonstrated that the Protein C Controls are stable for two months.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Results should fall within the expected ranges provided on the enclosed Expected
Value Card that is specific for each lot number.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

--- Page 7 ---
7