
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062152
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance for new intended use
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Creatine kinase MB isoenzyme
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme Verifier, Model DC27
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
Calibrator, Class II 21 CFR 862.1150, 75 CLINICAL
Secondary (JIT) Calibrator. CHEMISTRY (CH)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme Verifier is an in vitro diagnostic product for
verification of the Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme (CKMB) method on the
Dimension® clinical chemistry system and Dimension Vista™ System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For professional use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension® clinical chemistry system and Dimension Vista™ System.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
Calibrator,
Secondary (JIT)			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150,
Calibrator.			75 CLINICAL
CHEMISTRY (CH)		

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
CKMB Verifier is a lyophilized human serum base product. Level 1 contains
no CKMB, Levels 2 and 3 contain CKMB from a simian heart source. The kit
consists of six vials, two vials per level. The volume per vial is 1.0 mL.
All human source material was tested by FDA-approved methods for the
presence of antibodies to Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1)
and Type 2 (HIV-2), Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg) and antibodies to
Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) and found to be negative/non-reactive.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme Verifier
2. Predicate K number (s):
k863840
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Creatine Kinase MB Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme
Isoenzyme
Form Lyophilized Lyophilized
Traceability Dimension® clinical chemistry Dimension® clinical chemistry
system values. system values.
Matrix Human serum based product Human serum based product
containing CKMB from simian containing CKMB from simian
heart source. heart source.
Number of levels Three levels. Three levels.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Indications The Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme The Creatine Kinase MB
for Use Verifier is an in vitro diagnostic Isoenzyme Verifier is an in vitro
product for verification of the diagnostic
Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme product for verification of the
(CKMB) method on the Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme
Dimension® clinical chemistry (CKMB) method on the
system and Dimension Vista™ Dimension® clinical chemistry
System. system.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			Creatine Kinase MB
Isoenzyme			Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme		
Form			Lyophilized			Lyophilized		
Traceability			Dimension® clinical chemistry
system values.			Dimension® clinical chemistry
system values.		
Matrix			Human serum based product
containing CKMB from simian
heart source.			Human serum based product
containing CKMB from simian
heart source.		
Number of levels			Three levels.			Three levels.		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications
for Use			The Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme
Verifier is an in vitro diagnostic
product for verification of the
Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme
(CKMB) method on the
Dimension® clinical chemistry
system and Dimension Vista™
System.			The Creatine Kinase MB
Isoenzyme Verifier is an in vitro
diagnostic
product for verification of the
Creatine Kinase MB Isoenzyme
(CKMB) method on the
Dimension® clinical chemistry
system.		

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
OIVD
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment: Purified cynomolgus monkey heart CK-
MB stock solution is added to human serum based matrix. The solution is
tested on a Dimension clinical chemistry system with fixed calibration
parameters (coefficients) that are determined from the molar absorbidity of
NADH. The commercial lot is made by taking calculated quantities of stock
solution and adding to human serum base to create the target concentrations
for the two calibrator levels. The concentration of each level is verified to be
within acceptable range using a Dimension clinical chemistry system with
fixed calibration parameters (coefficients) that are determined from the molar
absorbidity of NADH.
Stability: Shelf life for the CKMB isoenzyme verifier is 12 months when
stored at the recommended conditions. Reconstituted product is stable for 8
hours when stored at 4°C. Stability study protocols and acceptance criteria
were described and found to be acceptable.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (14971:2000)

[Table 2 on page 3]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Guidance for Industry -
Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions
for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; Final	OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/calibrator.html
Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff - Use of Symbols on Labels
and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for
Professional Use			http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ocd/guidance/4444.html
			

--- Page 4 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4