
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062841
B. Purpose for Submission:
To add additional organism groups to the antibiotic daptomycin on the Sensititre®
Haemophilus influenzae / Streptococcus species MIC Susceptibility Plates
C. Measurand:
Daptomycin at 0.03-32 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) growth based fluorescence
E. Applicant:
TREK Diagnostic Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Sensititre® Haemophilus influenzae / Streptococcus species MIC Susceptibility plates
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1640 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JWY-manual readings of AST testing of >16 hour incubation
LRG Automated readings of AST of >16 hour incubation.
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:

--- Page 2 ---
1. Intended use(s):
The Sensititre® Haemophilus influenzae/Streptococcus species plates are in vitro
diagnostic products for quantitatively and or qualitative susceptibility testing of
isolated colonies of Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus species from
clinical specimens. Plates can either be read manually or automatically on the
Sensititre Autoreader and/or ARIS with Streptococcus species and manually with
H.influenzae.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This application is for the addition of testing Streptococcus species (spp.) with
daptomycin at 0.03-32 µg/mL) for use with the Sensititre® Haemophilus
influenzae/Streptococcus species Susceptibility Plates.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Automated readings may be performed on the Sensititre® AutoReader or
Sensititre® ARIS®.
I. Device Description:
Sensititre® MIC Susceptibility plate MIC panels are multi-well plastic microtitre
plates, precision dosed with antimicrobial agents at appropriate dilutions and then
dried. This is similar to the micro broth dilution methods and can provide both
qualitative and quantitative susceptibility results. The medium required for
testing Streptococcus is Sensititre® Mueller-Hinton (MH) broth with 2 – 5%
lysed horse blood with a final organism density of 5 X 105 colony forming units
(CFU/mL). This is then incubated in a non CO incubator for 20 – 24 hours and
2
read manually for growth or automatically on the Sensititre® Autoreader and/or
ARIS.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Pasco MIC and MIC/ID Panels
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K032518
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use an in vitro diagnostic product for Same
clinical susceptibility testing of
Streptococcus species
Inoculum Prepared from colonies using the Same
direct inoculation method
Growth medium Mueller – Hinton (MH) broth Same
with 2 – 5% lysed horse blood
Inoculation method Direct equated to a 0.5 Same
McFarland
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Type panel Dried antibiotics 100 μl/well frozen
Incubation 20 - 24 hours 16-24 hours
Technology Fluorescence detection of Turbidity detection
growth of growth
Reading method Visual growth and Auto read by Visual detection of
instrumentation growth
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods for
Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The Sensititre® Autoread System utilizes fluorescence technology to read 20 -24
hour Streptococcus spp. plates. The technology involves the detection of bacterial
growth by monitoring the activity of specific surface enzymes produced by the test
organism. Growth is determined by generating a fluorescent product from a non-
fluorescent (fluorogenic) substrate. The non-fluorescent substrate is prepared by
conjugating a fluorescent compound to the specific enzyme substrates with a bond,
which prevents fluorescence. The fluorophore, is then said to be quenched. The
substrate is added to the inoculum broth and dispensed into the test plates at the same
time as the test organism or the plates can be prepared with the substrate already
added to the plate. Enzymatic action of the bacterial surface enzymes on the specific
substrates, cleave this bond releasing the fluorophore, which is now capable of
fluorescence. The amount of fluorescence detected is directly related to the activity
of bacterial growth. The MIC is determined by observing the lowest dilution of
antimicrobial agent that inhibits growth of the organism or automatically for the
detection of fluorescence.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended use			an in vitro diagnostic product for
clinical susceptibility testing of
Streptococcus species			Same	
Inoculum			Prepared from colonies using the
direct inoculation method			Same	
Growth medium			Mueller – Hinton (MH) broth
with 2 – 5% lysed horse blood			Same	
Inoculation method			Direct equated to a 0.5
McFarland			Same	
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Type panel			Dried antibiotics			100 μl/well frozen	
Incubation			20 - 24 hours			16-24 hours	
Technology			Fluorescence detection of
growth			Turbidity detection
of growth	
Reading method			Visual growth and Auto read by
instrumentation			Visual detection of
growth	

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A reproducibility study was performed on 25 Streptococcus spp. These
isolates were tested once for each antimicrobial at each of the three sites on
the automated and manual read method demonstrating >95% reproducibility
for both read methods.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The recommended QC isolate, S. pneumoniae 49619 was tested daily with
acceptable results. Quality control was also performed at all sites using both
manual and autoread methods. The Sensititre® results demonstrated that the
system can produce QC results in the recommended range for both manual
and automated read methods. The mode difference between the reference
method and the two read methods demonstrates a slight trend for the
Sensititre® to produce a result reading of slightly more susceptible. The
reference method was in range for every day tested. The Table below
includes the frequency of each result in the range tested.
Conc ug/mL Sensititre® Sensititre® Reference
Antimicrobial ORGANISM Autoread manual
Daptomycin S. pneumoniae ATCC 49619 Exp. 0.03
Range: 0.6 – 0.5 ug/ml 0.06
0.12 45 50 20
0.25 8 7 40
0.5 7 3
1
Nephelometer was used at each site to standardize the inoculum and it was
calibrated each time it was switched on. Colony counts from QC isolates were
performed using the direct inoculum method with acceptable results.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Antimicrobial	ORGANISM	Conc ug/mL	Sensititre®
Autoread	Sensititre®
manual	Reference
					
Daptomycin	S. pneumoniae ATCC 49619 Exp.
Range: 0.6 – 0.5 ug/ml	0.03			
		0.06			
		0.12	45	50	20
		0.25	8	7	40
		0.5	7	3	
		1			

--- Page 5 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Comparison was performed to the broth dilution reference panel prepared
according to the CLSI recommendation. Clinical testing included both fresh
and stock clinical isolates of Streptococcus species and a set of challenge
organisms. The broth reference panel for Streptococcus spp. was set up using
MH supplemented with 2% to 5% lysed horse blood as recommended by
CLSI and incubated in a non CO incubator for 20 – 24 hours. The
2
Sensititre® plate was read both manually and using the Sensititre Autoreader
between 20 and 24 hour. The comparison resulted in the performance
evaluations as reflected below. The Autoreader results and the manual results
were very similar with acceptable results for both. A slight trend to more
susceptible results was also noted with both read methods as compared to the
reference result but still providing good essential agreement. Both methods
produced similar results so only one method is presented below. Since there
is only a susceptible category there are no major, minor or very major
discrepancies. All isolates tested were detected in the susceptible category.
Summary Table for Streptococcus spp. other than S. pneumoniae
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA
Tot N % EA EA EA %
Tot N %
Clinical isolates 297 293 98.7 273 269 98.5 100
Challenge isolates 50 50 100 46 46 100 100
Combined 347 343 98.8 319 315 98.7 100
EA-Essential Agreement CA-Category Agreement
EA is when there is agreement between the reference method and the
Sensititre® panel within plus or minus one serial two-fold dilution of
antibiotic. Category agreement (CA) is when the Sensititre® panel result
interpretation agrees exactly with the reference panel result interpretation.
Evaluable EA is when the MIC result is on scale for both the Sensititre® and
the reference and have on-scale EA. The EA% is acceptable when compared
to the reference method as described in the FDA guidance document, “Class II
Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”.
The charts above demonstrated that the performance for Streptococcus spp.
other than S. pneumoniae was very good for both methods of reading. In this
study the growth rate for Streptococcus spp. was greater than 95%.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA
Tot	Eval
EA
N	Eval
EA
%	CA
%
Clinical isolates	297	293	98.7	273	269	98.5	100
Challenge isolates	50	50	100	46	46	100	100
Combined	347	343	98.8	319	315	98.7	100

--- Page 6 ---
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Antibiotic Organism Interpretative Criteria
Daptomycin Streptococcus spp. other than S. ≤1 (S)*
pneumoniae
* For some organism/antimicrobial agent combinations, the absence or rare
occurrence of resistant strains precludes defining any results categories other than
“susceptible.” For strains yielding results suggestive of a “nonsusceptible”
category, organism identification and antimicrobial susceptibility test results
should be confirmed. Subsequently, the isolates should be saved and submitted to
a reference laboratory that will confirm results using a CLSI reference dilution
method.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC are included in the package
insert. The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part
809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Antibiotic	Organism	Interpretative Criteria
Daptomycin	Streptococcus spp. other than S.
pneumoniae	≤1 (S)*