
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062213
B. Purpose for Submission:
This is an original bundled application for a new multiplexed flow immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of two (2) separate analytes; Epstein-Barr Virus Viral Capsid
Antigen (EBV VCA) IgM antibodies and Heterophile antibodies in human serum to aid
in the diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis.
C. Measurand:
Epstein-Barr Virus Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV VCA) IgM antibodies and
Heterophile antibodies
D. Type of Test:
Multiplexed flow immunoassay
E. Applicant:
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit, Controls and Calibrators on the BioPlex 2200 Multi-
Analyte Detection System
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LJN I 866.3235 – Epstein- Microbiology (83)
Barr virus
serological reagents
KTN II 866.5640 Infectious Immunology
mononucleosis
immunological test
system
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LJN			I			866.3235 – Epstein-
Barr virus
serological reagents			Microbiology (83)		
KTN			II			866.5640 Infectious
mononucleosis
immunological test
system			Immunology		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit is a multiplex flow immunoassay intended for the
qualitative detection of two (2) separate analytes; Epstein-Barr Virus Viral Capsid
Antigen (EBV VCA) IgM antibodies and Heterophile antibodies in human serum.
The test system can be used in conjunction with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit as
an aid in the laboratory diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis (IM).
The EBV IgM kit is intended for use with the Bio-Rad BioPlex 2200 System.
Assay performance characteristics have not been established for
immunocompromised or immunosuppressed patients, cord blood, neonatal
specimens, or infants. Assay performance characteristics have not been
established for the diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Burkitt’s lymphoma,
and other EBV-associated lymphomas.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit is intended for use with the BioPlex 2200 System
instrument and software.
I. Device Description:
The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit is a multiplex flow immunoassay for the qualitative
detection of two (2) separate analytes; Epstein-Barr Virus Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV
VCA) IgM antibodies and Heterophile antibodies in human serum. See test principle
below for more details.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Predicate Device 1: Wampole Monolatex Agglutination test.
510k number: K862008
Component Similarities
Device Predicate
Intended Use Aid in diagnosis of Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis infectious mononucleosis
Differences
Device Predicate
Technology Multiplexed flow Agglutination Assay
immunoassay
Intended Use Qualitative detection Qualitative or Semi-
quantitative detection
Matrices Serum Serum or plasma
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate Device 2: Diasorin EBV VCA IgM Capture EIA.
510k number: K946157
Component Similarities
Device Predicate
Intended Use Aid in diagnosis of Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis infectious mononucleosis
Matrices Serum Serum
Differences
Device Predicate
Technology Multiplexed flow Traditional EIA
immunoassay
Intended Use Qualitative detection Qualitative or Semi-
quantitative detection
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition (EP5-A2)
Other Standards
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Component	Similarities	
	Device	Predicate
Intended Use	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis
	Differences	
	Device	Predicate
Technology	Multiplexed flow
immunoassay	Agglutination Assay
Intended Use	Qualitative detection	Qualitative or Semi-
quantitative detection
Matrices	Serum	Serum or plasma

[Table 2 on page 3]
Component	Similarities	
	Device	Predicate
Intended Use	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis
Matrices	Serum	Serum
	Differences	
	Device	Predicate
Technology	Multiplexed flow
immunoassay	Traditional EIA
Intended Use	Qualitative detection	Qualitative or Semi-
quantitative detection

[Table 3 on page 3]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition (EP5-A2)

--- Page 4 ---
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Review Criteria for In Vitro
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/527.pdf
Diagnostic Devices for Detection
OIVD DIHD
of IGM Antibodies to Viral
Agents
Guidance on Informed Consent
for In Vitro Diagnostic Device
Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/oivd/guidance/1588.html
CBER/
Individually Identifiable -
OIVD
Guidance for Sponsors,
Institutional Review Boards,
Clinical Investigators and FDA
Staff
L. Test Principle:
The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit uses multiplex flow immunoassay, a methodology
that greatly resembles traditional EIA, but permits simultaneous detection and
identification of many antibodies in a single tube. Two (2) different populations of
dyed beads are coated with proteins associated with infectious mononucleosis. One
(1) is coated with an E. coli derived recombinant fusion protein, EBV VCA p18
(40kD), and the other is coated with horse erythrocyte stromal extract (heterophile
antigen). The BioPlex 2200 System combines an aliquot of patient sample, sample
diluent containing goat anti-human IgG, and bead reagent into a reaction vessel. The
mixture is incubated at 37°C. After a wash cycle, anti-human IgM antibody,
conjugated to phycoerythrin (PE), is added to the dyed beads and this mixture is
incubated at 37°C. The excess conjugate is removed in another wash cycle, and the
beads are re-suspended in wash buffer. The bead mixture then passes through the
detector. The identity of the dyed beads is determined by the fluorescence of the
dyes, and the amount of antibody captured by the antigen is determined by the
fluorescence of the attached PE.
Three additional dyed beads, an Internal Standard Bead (ISB), a Serum Verification
Bead (SVB), and a Reagent Blank Bead (RBB), are present in each reaction mixture
to verify detector response, the addition of serum or plasma to the reaction vessel, and
the absence of significant non-specific binding in serum or plasma respectively. The
instrument is calibrated using a set of two (2) distinct calibrator vials, supplied
separately by Bio-Rad Laboratories. A combination of two (2) vials representing two
(2) different antibody concentrations is used for calibration. The result for each of
these antibodies is expressed as an antibody index (AI).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Review Criteria for In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices for Detection
of IGM Antibodies to Viral
Agents	OIVD	DIHD	http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/527.pdf
Guidance on Informed Consent
for In Vitro Diagnostic Device
Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not
Individually Identifiable -
Guidance for Sponsors,
Institutional Review Boards,
Clinical Investigators and FDA
Staff	CBER/
OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/oivd/guidance/1588.html
			

--- Page 5 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision Studies:
A precision panel, consisting of six (6) panel members was prepared by Bio-Rad
Laboratories. Two (2) of the six (6) panel members had high levels of the
antibodies contained in the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit EBV IgM kit (EBV VCA
IgM and Heterophile) and two (2) of the six (6) panel members had antibody
levels near the cutoff, both prepared from positive patient samples. Two (2) of
the six (6) panel members were negative (one high negative and one low
negative) for both of the analytes. Precision testing was performed at Bio-Rad
Laboratories on one lot of the EBV IgM kit, one lot of the EBV IgM Calibrator
Set and one lot of the EBV IgM Control Set. Each of the six (6) panel members
was tested in duplicate (x2) on two (2) runs per day for ten (10) days using one
(1) lot of EBV IgM kit, one (1) lot of EBV IgM Calibrator Set and one (1) lot of
EBV IgM Control Set (2 times x 2 runs x 10 days = 40 replicates per panel
member). The data were analyzed for intra-assay and inter-assay precision
according to the principles described in the Clinical Laboratory Standards
Institute guidance EP5-A2, revised November 2004 and ISO/TR 22971:2205.
The standard deviation (SD) and percent coefficient of variation (%CV) were
calculated. Results can be found in Tables U and V.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Reproducibility Studies
A reproducibility panel, consisting of six (6) panel members was prepared by Bio-
Rad Laboratories. Two (2) of the six (6) panel members had high levels of the
antibodies contained in the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit (EBV VCA IgM and
Heterophile) and two (2) of the six (6) panel members had antibody levels near
the cutoff, both prepared from positive patient samples. Two (2) of the six (6)
panel members were negative (one high negative and one low negative) for both
of the analytes. In addition, a positive control (antibody positive for both
analytes) and a negative control (antibody negative for both analytes) were also
tested. Reproducibility testing was performed at each of three (3) US testing
facilities on a total of three (3) lots of the EBV IgM kit, three (3) lots of the EBV
IgM Calibrator Set and three (3) lots of the EBV IgM Control Set. The panels
were provided to each of the testing sites. Each of the six (6) panel members and
positive and negative controls was tested in quadruple (x4) on each day for three
(3) days at each of three (3) US testing facilities using one (1) lot of EBV IgM kit,
one (1) lot of EBV IgM Calibrator Set and one (1) lot of EBV IgM Control Set (4
times x 3 days x 3 sites = 36 replicates per panel member and controls). The data
were analyzed for intra-assay and inter-assay reproducibility according to the
6

--- Page 7 ---
principles described in the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute guidance EP5-
A2, revised November 2004 and ISO/TR 22971:2205. The standard deviation
(SD) and percent coefficient of variation (%CV) were calculated. Positive results
can be found in Tables S and T.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not Applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
A cross-reactivity study was performed to determine if samples from various
disease states and other potentially interfering factors interfere with test results
when tested with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit. A panel of at least ten (10)
7

--- Page 8 ---
specimens* positive for each cross reactant were evaluated for possible cross
reactivity with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit for both EBV IgM antibody
assays. The test specimens were also evaluated on corresponding
commercially available microplate EIA and latex agglutination tests. Due to
the number of VCA IgM positive results obtained with the initial 10
Toxoplasmosis and CMV samples, an additional 33 Toxoplasmosis and 42
CMV positive samples were tested with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit. This
study was performed to demonstrate that the BioPlex 2200 VCA IgM assay
does not exhibit cross reactivity with Toxoplasmosis or CMV IgM samples.
For these additional samples, only those that exhibited positive reactivity were
tested on corresponding commercially available microplate EIA and latex
agglutination tests. Most of the samples evaluated were high positive for each
disease state. The majority of all samples that elicited a positive result were
also confirmed positive by the corresponding commercially available test,
indicating reactivity to EBV IgM antibodies rather than cross reactivity with a
potentially interfering factor. Results can be found in Table W.
*Due to limited availability of samples, only four E. coli specimens were
evaluated.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Interfering Substances:
Testing for interfering substances was conducted according to NCCLS
Protocol EP7-A (Vol. 22, No. 27). No significant interference was
observed in any of the substances tested. The following substances, listed
in Table X, were tested (N=10) at maximum levels on one reagent lot.
f. Assay cut-off:
A final cut-off of 1 AI was established for all BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit assays
based on an evaluation of 548 serum samples with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit
assays and corresponding commercially available microplate EIA and latex
agglutination tests. ROC analysis was performed for each BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM
assay using this population of samples. Samples that were equivocal on the
commercially available tests were excluded from the analysis. This analysis was
used to optimize sensitivity and specificity for the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit
assays. A final cut-off of 1 AI was established for all BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit
assays based on the data collected.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance of the EBV IgM kit was tested against corresponding
commercially available microplate EIA/agglutination tests. A total of 621
banked serum samples from patients for which an EBV test was ordered were
tested at 3 U.S. clinical testing sites. The EBV IgG kit was run in conjunction
with the EBV IgM kit to allow for a complete antibody response profile. The
characterization by antibody response was not compared with clinical data
regarding presence, absence or status of disease. Two (2) samples were
excluded due to RBB analysis error messages during BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM
testing. One (1) sample was excluded due to RBB analysis error messages
9

--- Page 10 ---
during BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG testing. Using Table A as a guideline, results
were analyzed by BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM analytes and corresponding EBV
IgM reference assays according to serological characterization based on
reference assay results. For the purpose of percent agreement calculations,
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM equivocal results were assigned to the opposite
clinical interpretation than that of the corresponding reference assay result.
Results from all sites are shown and summarized in Tables F - I.
10

--- Page 11 ---
Comparison of EBV Serological Status
Using Table A as a guideline, samples characterized into serological status
associated with EBV disease, using the commercially available microplate
EIA and agglutination tests, were compared with characterizations using
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG and IgM kits. The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit
was run in conjunction with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit to allow for a
complete antibody response profile. The characterization by antibody
response was not compared with clinical data regarding presence, absence
or status of disease. Results from 618 serum samples tested at 3 U.S.
clinical testing sites are shown in Table N.
11

--- Page 12 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values for the EBV IgM kit are presented by age and gender in the
following tables for serum samples from unselected hospitalized pediatric and
adult patients (N=302) and patients for which an EBV test was ordered (N=619).
A total of 303 serum samples from unselected hospitalized pediatric and adult
patients and a total of 621 serum samples from patients for which an EBV test
was ordered were tested. One (1) sample from the unselected hospitalized
population, and two (2) samples from the patients for which an EBV test was
ordered population were excluded due to RBB analysis error messages during
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM testing. For all analytes, results of ≤0.8 AI are negative,
0.9 and 1.0 AI are equivocal, and ≥1.1 AI are reported as positive.
12

--- Page 13 ---
13

--- Page 14 ---
14

--- Page 15 ---
The distribution of BioPlex 2200 EBV VCA IgM and Heterophile AI values for
serum samples from adult and pediatric unselected hospitalized patients and from
patients for which an EBV test was ordered are presented in the following
histograms.
15

--- Page 16 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
16