
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 7
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K062927
B. Purpose for Submission:
To add the option for automated reading of Ampicillin at 0.03 – 16 µg/mL
to the MICroSTREP plus® Panel on the MicroScan® WalkAway System
C. Measurand:
Ampicillin at 0.03 – 16 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative and Qualitative growth based detection algorithm using optics light
detection
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc,
MicroScan®
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MicroScan® MICroSTREP plus® Panel – Ampicillin at 0.03 – 16 µg/mL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1640 – Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LRG – Instrument for Auto Reader & Interpretation of Overnight
Antimicrobial Susceptibility System
LTT – Panels, Test, Susceptibility, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Ampicillin at 0.03 – 16 µg/mL is for use with MICroSTREP plus® Panels
MICroSTREP plus® Panels are designed for use in determining quantitative

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
and/or qualitative antimicrobial agent susceptibility of colonies grown on
solid media of aerobic streptococci, including Streptococcus pneumoniae.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for adding the option for automated reading of the
antibiotic Ampicillin at concentrations of 0.03 – 16 µg/mL to MICroSTREP
plus® Panels on the MicroScan® WalkAway System for testing aerobic
streptococci other than Streptococcus pneumoniae.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
Turbidity method of inoculum preparation only
Intended for aerobic streptococci other than Streptococcus pneumoniae
The current absence of data on Beta-hemolytic Streptococci strains resistant to
Ampicillin precludes defining any results other than “Susceptible”. Strains
yielding results suggestive of a non-susceptible category should be submitted
to a reference laboratory for further testing.
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The MicroScan® MICroSTREP plus® Panel is a 96-well plastic dish which contains
microdilutions of each antimicrobic in various concentrations dried in aqueous
solutions. The panel is rehydrated and inoculated at the same time with a Mueller-
Hinton broth supplemented with lysed horse blood (2 – 5%). The target inoculum
concentration for each well should be approximately 5 x 105 colony forming units
(CFU)/mL. Panels are incubated in a 35° C non-CO incubator for 20-24 hours. After
2
incubation, the panels are read manually for growth. Additionally, panels may be
incubated in and read by a MicroScan® WalkAway instrument. Each panel contains
a “growth” but it does not contain a “no growth” control well.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
MICroSTREP plus®
2. Predicate K number(s):
K021037
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Determination of susceptibility to Same
antimicrobics with aerobic
streptococci other than
Streptococcus pneumoniae

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Determination of susceptibility to
antimicrobics with aerobic
streptococci other than
Streptococcus pneumoniae			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
Isolates For use with aerobic streptococci Same
other than Streptococcus
pneumoniae isolated colonies
from culture
Results Quantitative with qualitative Same
interpretations
Incubation 20 – 24 hours Same
Panels Ampicillin dried in aqueous Same
solution
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology Growth based using Growth based
algorithm with optics light
detection
Reading Overnight method Overnight method
Manual or automated Manual read only
Instrument MicroScan® WalkAway Microdilution viewer
System or Microdilution
viewer
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The antimicrobial susceptibility tests are miniaturizations of the broth dilution
susceptibility test that have been diluted in water and dehydrated. Various
antimicrobial agents are diluted in water, buffer or minute concentrations of broth to
concentrations bridging the range of clinical interest. Panels are rehydrated with 115 µL
Mueller-Hinton broth supplemented with 2-5% lysed horse blood (LHB), after
inoculation of the broth with a standardized suspension of the organism. The target
inoculum concentration for each well should be approximately 5 x 105 colony forming
units (CFU)/mL. After incubation in a non-CO incubator for 20-24 hours, the
2
minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for the test organisms is determined by
observing the lowest antimicrobial concentration showing inhibition of growth. Panels
can be read manually using indirect light or the panels can be read on the MicroScan®
WalkAway instrument using optics light detection.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
This submission is for the AST Panel only. The ID System was not reviewed.
The Reproducibility studies, QC performance data, and Challenge isolates evaluated
by the manual and automated reading methods are contained in this submission to
demonstrate that there is no difference between manual reading and automated reading

[Table 1 on page 3]
Isolates		For use with aerobic streptococci
other than Streptococcus
pneumoniae isolated colonies
from culture							Same	
Results		Quantitative with qualitative
interpretations							Same	
Incubation		20 – 24 hours							Same	
Panels		Ampicillin dried in aqueous
solution							Same	
Differences										
	Item				Device			Predicate		
Technology				Growth based using
algorithm with optics light
detection			Growth based			
Reading				Overnight method
Manual or automated			Overnight method
Manual read only			
Instrument				MicroScan® WalkAway
System or Microdilution
viewer			Microdilution viewer			

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
in the MicroScan® WalkAway System. The clinical efficacy performance was
previously established using the manual read method and was therefore not required
for this submission.
Ampicillin was tested in doubling dilutions ranging from 0.015 – 16 µg/mL.
Clearance is requested for 0.03 – 16 µg/mL on the MICroStrep plus panel.
Challenge and Reproducibility data were presented for both the dilutions tested and
the dilutions requested.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was demonstrated using 10 streptococcal isolates
tested at 3 sites on 3 separate days in triplicate. The study included
testing on the MicroScan® WalkAway System with automated
reading at 20-24 hours, and manual readings at 20-24 hours
incubation.
The automated reading method produced a slight trend for more
susceptible results, if only by one dilution, when the data is mapped
to the dilutions requested (0.03 – 16 µg/mL). This trend was driven
primarily by one S. pneumoniae (at Sites 1 and 2) and one Viridans
streptococci (at Site 1), that produced off-scale results. No trending
was observed when the data was mapped to all dilutions tested
(0.015—16 µg/mL).
Both reading methods demonstrated >95% reproducibility.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
The recommended QC isolate S. pneumoniae ATCC 49619 was
tested a sufficient number of times with acceptable results on all
testing days with the reference method.
Quality control results demonstrated the ability of the different
reading parameters (manual and instrument) to produce acceptable
results. The following table provides the frequency of results in
each concentration with the expected range stated.
Both reading methods produced the same mode.

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
Organism Concentration Reference MicroScan®
µg/mL results WalkAway
results
Manual Instrument
Overnight Overnight
S. pneumoniae <=0.03 1
ATCC 49619 0.06 26 15 18
Expected range 0.12 36 53 48
0.06 – 0.25 0.25
µg/mL 0.5 1
1
2
Inoculum density control: A turbidity meter, which was verified
each day of testing, was used for the turbidity inoculation method.
Colony counts were performed weekly, on the ATCC S. pneumoniae
with all results in the expected range of approximately 5 x 105.
No trending was observed.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical efficacy testing with manual result reading was conducted in
the previous submission (K021037). In this submission, Challenge
isolates were evaluated by the manual and automated reading methods
to demonstrate that there is no difference between manual reading and
instrument reading on the MicroScan® WalkAway System.
There were 70 challenge isolates including 53 S. pneumoniae CDC
Challenge Set strains, tested at one site and compared to the reference
broth dilution result. A comparison was done with readings on the
instrument after 20 hours incubation, and also read manually when
incubated for 20-24 hours.
Challenge data was provided for all dilutions tested (0.015-16 µg/mL),
but clearance was requested for 10 dilutions (0.03 – 16 µg/mL).
Because ampicillin is intended for testing Streptococcus species other
than S. pneumoniae, the 53 S. pneumoniae results were excluded from

[Table 1 on page 5]
Organism	Concentration
µg/mL	Reference
results	MicroScan®
WalkAway
results	
			Manual
Overnight	Instrument
Overnight
S. pneumoniae
ATCC 49619
Expected range
0.06 – 0.25
µg/mL	<=0.03			1
	0.06	26	15	18
	0.12	36	53	48
	0.25			
	0.5			1
	1			
	2			

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
the error calculations. Performance by the automated reading method
was acceptable with no differences or trends.
The recommended CLSI reference method was followed with the
exception of the use of a small amount (0.1%) of Pluronic (a wetting
agent) in the final inoculum. A validation of the use of Pluronic in the
frozen reference panel was conducted. QC was also performed with
no difference apparent in the results.
Read method comparison of Streptococcus species other than S. pneumoniae and
Ampicillin
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA %
Challenge 70 66 94.3 57 54 94.7 1 0 0 0
Manual
Challenge 70 66 94.3 56 53 94.6 1 0 0 0
Automated
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates vmj-very major discrepancies
min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the Microscan® MICroSTREP plus®
panels agree with the reference test panel results exactly or within one
doubling dilution of the reference method. Evaluable (Eval) are results that
are within the test range and on scale.
Automated reading results were the same as the manual reading
results. The slight trending observed in the Reproducibility Study with
the automated reading method for a more susceptible result was not
detected. There were no vmj, no maj errors, and 1 minor error was
generated by both reading methods. The overall EA% of 94.3% and
Eval EA% of 94.7% for the manual read and overall EA% of 94.3%
and Eval EA% of 94.6% for the automated reading were both very
good. The test device had a growth rate of >95% for both the manual
reading and the automated reading methods.
The comparison of the reading methods demonstrates that the manual
reading method and the automated reading on the MicroScan®
WalkAway System are no different. The efficacy data performed with
the manual reading method would therefore be expected to have no
differences.
The performance data currently documented in the package insert will
not change.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 6]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	#R	min	maj	vmj
Challenge
Manual	70	66	94.3	57	54	94.7	1	0	0	0
Challenge
Automated	70	66	94.3	56	53	94.6	1	0	0	0

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretive Criteria S I R
Beta hemolytic Streptococci <=0.25 * *
Viridans Streptococci <=0.25 0.5—4 >=8
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC are included
in the package insert.
*The current absence of data on Beta-hemolytic Streptococci strains
resistant to Ampicillin precludes defining any results other than
“Susceptible”. Strains yielding results suggestive of a non-susceptible
category should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 7]
Interpretive Criteria	S	I	R
Beta hemolytic Streptococci	<=0.25	*	*
Viridans Streptococci	<=0.25	0.5—4	>=8