
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k062379
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Assayed control for prealbumin and ceruloplasmin assays.
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable.
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics Corp.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY Class I 21 CFR 862.1660 Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC) is used for
quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods
as specified in the enclosed value sheet.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC) is used for
quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods
as specified in the enclosed value sheet.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
COBAS INTEGRA and Roche/Hitachi family of analyzers.
I. Device Description:
The Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC) is a lyophilized
control based on human serum. The adjusted concentrations of the control
components are usually in the normal range or at the normal/pathological threshold.
Each Precinorm/Precipath PC Control Set contains 3 bottles of controls (a 1.0 ml fill
volume per bottle) at Levels I, and II. Individual donors units were tested by FDA
approved methods for HBsAg, HCV and HIV and found to be nonreactive.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate K040280 Precinorm PUC
Describe the item being compared
Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC) is used for quality control by
monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed value
sheet.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJY		Class I			21 CFR 862.1660					

[Table 2 on page 1]
Predicate	K040280 Precinorm PUC
Describe the item being compared	
Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Control Set (Precinorm/Precipath PC) is used for quality control by
monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed value
sheet.	

--- Page 2 ---
Similarities
Item New Device Predicate
Intended Use Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin Precinorm PUC (Proteins in
Control Set Urine/CSF) is for use in
(Precinorm/Precipath PC) is quality control by
used for quality control by monitoring accuracy and
monitoring accuracy and precision for the
precision for the quantitative methods as
quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed
specified in the enclosed value sheet
value sheet
Differences
Item New Device Predicate
Matrix Human serum based Buffered aqueous solution
Format Lyophilized Liquid, ready to use
Handling Reconstitute with exactly Ready to use.
1.0 mL of distilled water
and allow to stand closed
for 30 minutes to
reconstitute, and then mix
gently.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Points to Consider Guidance Document on
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/99.html
Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control OIVD
Material; Draft
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Precinorm/Precipath Control Set products are assayed and traceable to the
Institute for Reference Methods and Materials (IRMM). Values are assigned
at three internal laboratories using the COBAS Integra and Roche Hitachi c
systems. Each laboratory runs at least three independent series of analyses on
each instrument for each analyte. Each sample is tested in singleton. The
target value is then calculated as the median of the determined values. The
following tables list lot-specific target values and ranges.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities							
Item			New Device			Predicate	
Intended Use		Prealbumin/Ceruloplasmin
Control Set
(Precinorm/Precipath PC) is
used for quality control by
monitoring accuracy and
precision for the
quantitative methods as
specified in the enclosed
value sheet			Precinorm PUC (Proteins in
Urine/CSF) is for use in
quality control by
monitoring accuracy and
precision for the
quantitative methods as
specified in the enclosed
value sheet		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences							
Item			New Device			Predicate	
Matrix		Human serum based			Buffered aqueous solution		
Format		Lyophilized			Liquid, ready to use		
Handling		Reconstitute with exactly
1.0 mL of distilled water
and allow to stand closed
for 30 minutes to
reconstitute, and then mix
gently.			Ready to use.		

[Table 3 on page 2]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Points to Consider Guidance Document on
Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material; Draft	OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/99.html
			

--- Page 3 ---
Precinorm PC Target value Target Value COBAS
Roche/Hitachi systems INTEGRA systems
Ceruloplasmin 21.7-35.5 mg/dL 21.3-34.5 mg/dL
Prealbumin 16.9-27.7 mg/dL 16.6-26.8 mg/dL
Precipath Target value Target Value COBAS
Roche/Hitachi systems INTEGRA systems
Ceruloplasmin 49.0-80.2 mg/dL 51.7-84.1
Prealbumin 39.6-64.8 mg/dL 40.6-66.4
The unopened products are stable for 18 months when stored at 2 to 8 ºC. The
following table lists the reconstituted products stability:
Temperature Stability
15 - 25ºC up to 8 hours
2 - 8ºC 2 days
-15 to -25ºC 2 weeks, freeze only
once
Protocols and acceptance criteria for stability testing were described and
found to be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Precinorm PC	Target value
Roche/Hitachi systems	Target Value COBAS
INTEGRA systems
Ceruloplasmin	21.7-35.5 mg/dL	21.3-34.5 mg/dL
Prealbumin	16.9-27.7 mg/dL	16.6-26.8 mg/dL

[Table 2 on page 3]
Precipath	Target value
Roche/Hitachi systems	Target Value COBAS
INTEGRA systems
Ceruloplasmin	49.0-80.2 mg/dL	51.7-84.1
Prealbumin	39.6-64.8 mg/dL	40.6-66.4

[Table 3 on page 3]
Temperature	Stability
15 - 25ºC	up to 8 hours
2 - 8ºC	2 days
-15 to -25ºC	2 weeks, freeze only
once

--- Page 4 ---
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4