
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K062755
B. Purpose for Submission:
Original 510(k)
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Ikonisys, Inc. Ikoniscope® oncoFISH™ Bladder Test System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
The Ikoniscope oncoFISH Bladder Test System detects cells of interest from urine
samples, stained by FISH using commercially available direct labeled DNA probes or
chromosomes 3, 7, 17, and loss of 9p21 locus.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Ikoniscope onco FISH Bladder Test System is an automated scanning
microscope system incorporating automated slide loading and handling, low and
high magnification scanning to identify targets of interest and digital image
acquisition, coupled with an image analysis workstation. Microscope slides,
prepared according to the DNA probe manufacturers’ specifications, are placed
into a multiple slide cassette, and loaded into the Ikoniscope oncoFISH Bladder
Test system. The system unloads each slide, scans each one, and returns it to the
cassette automatically. During scanning, images of cells exhibiting the
predetermined characteristics for FISH signals are digitally photographed and
stored. After all the slides are scanned, the workstation provides an image gallery
for each slide that displays the image of each cell meeting predetermined
characteristics and quantity and places scanned nuclei into scorable categories,
established according to the specifications in the DNA probes FDA cleared
labeling. The operator/reader can then evaluate the cell nuclei, and make the
diagnostic determination accordingly.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
The Ikoniscope oncoFISH Bladder Test System combines elements of existing
technologies to perform its function. Fluorescence In-Situ Hybridization (FISH)
uses commercially available, FDA cleared, DNA probes (not supplied with the
test system) for labeling chromosomes 3,7,17, and the loss of 9p21 locus
(UroVysion® Multicolor DNA Probe Kit, Vysis, Downer’s Grove, IL).
Automated cell locating/counting using pattern recognition algorithms to identify
the signal characteristics of interest. The software incorporated in the system
automatically captures an image of each cell containing FISH signals and stores
its location on the slide. These images are then presented to the operator, using a
computer workstation, for analysis. Images are displayed in scorable categories
according to the specifications of the probe developer.
3. Modes of Operation:
N/A
4. Specimen Identification:
Barcode
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Samples should be obtained and handled according to the laboratory’s standard
operating procedures and following the protocol described in the package insert
for the UroVysion probe kit.
6. Calibration:
Calibration of the Ikoniscope is done at the time of installation by Ikonysis.
7. Quality Control:
ProbeChek® quality control slides by Abbott should be used with the UroVysion
probes as recommended by the probe manufacturer.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________ Comprehensive software documentation at a
Moderate Level of Concern was provided.
2

--- Page 3 ---
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5260, Automated cell-locating device
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
JOY
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Ikoniscope® oncoFISH™ Bladder Test System is an automated scanning
microscope coupled with image analysis, acquisition and display functions. It is
intended for in-vitro diagnosis as an aide to the technologist or pathologist in the
detection, classification and enumeration of cells of interest based on particular
characteristics such as intensity, size, shape or fluorescence. The Ikoniscope®
oncoFISH™ Bladder Test System is intended to detect cells, derived from urine
samples, stained by FISH using commercially available direct labeled DNA
probes or chromosomes 3, 7, 17 and loss of 9p21 locus. Following identification,
a summary report is generated which may provide the basis for a diagnostic
determination by the genetics professional and a gallery of the images scanned is
presented for review to permit the professional to confirm or deny the diagnosis.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
N/A
3

--- Page 4 ---
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
BioView, Inc., Duet™ System (K050840)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Illumination Halogen Lamp Same
Basic Components Automated slide loading Same
Automated microscope Same
Camera, PC, Keyboard
and control panel, Color
monitor, Color printer.
Cells Targeted Urine Same
Clinical Trial Test device compared Same
Comparison with standard manual
FISH analysis.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Method of Operation Automated epifluorescent Automated microscopy
microscopy with in bright-field and
monochrome digital fluorescent illumination
image capture of wave- with color digital image
length specific capture of color specific
fluorescent signals. fluorescent signals.
Microscope Objectives 10X, 100X (50X actual 10X, 60X
resolution).
Camera Monochrome, Digital Color, Digital
Image Presentation Pseudo-color image Color image
Clinical Trial Size 100 slides for 100 135 slides for 135
patients patients
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Illumination
Basic Components
Cells Targeted
Clinical Trial
Comparison			Halogen Lamp
Automated slide loading
Automated microscope
Camera, PC, Keyboard
and control panel, Color
monitor, Color printer.
Urine
Test device compared
with standard manual
FISH analysis.			Same
Same
Same
Same
Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Method of Operation
Microscope Objectives
Camera
Image Presentation
Clinical Trial Size			Automated epifluorescent
microscopy with
monochrome digital
image capture of wave-
length specific
fluorescent signals.
10X, 100X (50X actual
resolution).
Monochrome, Digital
Pseudo-color image
100 slides for 100
patients			Automated microscopy
in bright-field and
fluorescent illumination
with color digital image
capture of color specific
fluorescent signals.
10X, 60X
Color, Digital
Color image
135 slides for 135
patients		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The Ikoniscope® The Duet™ System is an
oncoFISH™ Bladder automated scanning
Test System is an microscope and image
automated scanning analysis system. It is
microscope coupled with intended for in-vitro
image analysis, diagnostic use an aiding
acquisition and display tool to the pathologist in
functions. It is intended the detection,
for in-vitro diagnosis as classification and
an aide to the counting of cells of
technologist or interest based on
pathologist in the particular color,
detection, classification intensity, size, shape and
and enumeration of cells pattern.
of interest based on
particular characteristics The Duet™ System is
such as intensity, size, intended to detect the
shape or fluorescence. following cell types:
The Ikoniscope® 1. Hematopoetic
oncoFISH™ Bladder cells stained by
Test System is intended Giemsa stain,
to detect cells, derived immunohistoche
from urine samples, mistry or ISH
stained by FISH using (with bright field
commercially available or fluorescent)
direct labeled DNA prepared from
probes or chromosomes cell suspension.
3, 7, 17 and loss of 9p21 2. Amniotic cells
locus. Following stained by FISH
identification, a summary (using direct-
report is generated which labeled DNA
may provide the basis for probed for
a diagnostic chromosomes X,
determination by the Y, 13, 18 and 21.
genetics professional and Cells in urine specimens,
a gallery of the images stained by FISH using
scanned is presented for the Vysis UroVysion™
review to permit the Bladder Cancer
professional to confirm or Recurrence Kit) for
deny the diagnosis. chromosomes 3, 7, 17
and 9p21 locus) from
subjects with transitional
cell carcinoma of the
bladder.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Ikoniscope®
oncoFISH™ Bladder
Test System is an
automated scanning
microscope coupled with
image analysis,
acquisition and display
functions. It is intended
for in-vitro diagnosis as
an aide to the
technologist or
pathologist in the
detection, classification
and enumeration of cells
of interest based on
particular characteristics
such as intensity, size,
shape or fluorescence.
The Ikoniscope®
oncoFISH™ Bladder
Test System is intended
to detect cells, derived
from urine samples,
stained by FISH using
commercially available
direct labeled DNA
probes or chromosomes
3, 7, 17 and loss of 9p21
locus. Following
identification, a summary
report is generated which
may provide the basis for
a diagnostic
determination by the
genetics professional and
a gallery of the images
scanned is presented for
review to permit the
professional to confirm or
deny the diagnosis.			The Duet™ System is an
automated scanning
microscope and image
analysis system. It is
intended for in-vitro
diagnostic use an aiding
tool to the pathologist in
the detection,
classification and
counting of cells of
interest based on
particular color,
intensity, size, shape and
pattern.
The Duet™ System is
intended to detect the
following cell types:
1. Hematopoetic
cells stained by
Giemsa stain,
immunohistoche
mistry or ISH
(with bright field
or fluorescent)
prepared from
cell suspension.
2. Amniotic cells
stained by FISH
(using direct-
labeled DNA
probed for
chromosomes X,
Y, 13, 18 and 21.
Cells in urine specimens,
stained by FISH using
the Vysis UroVysion™
Bladder Cancer
Recurrence Kit) for
chromosomes 3, 7, 17
and 9p21 locus) from
subjects with transitional
cell carcinoma of the
bladder.		

--- Page 6 ---
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
The Ikoniscope® oncoFISH™ Bladder Test System was evaluated in a
clinical trial to determine the accuracy of the system compared with FISH
analysis of the same samples using standard manual evaluation. In this trial,
results of FISH analysis of 100 patient samples evaluated using the
Ikoniscope® oncoFISH™ Bladder Test System were compared with the
results of the evaluation of the same samples using standard manual analysis
to perform the FISH analysis. In this trial there was a 99% concordance
between the two methods in terms of diagnostic result.
Results: One hundred consecutive samples were analyzed as the study
samples. 96 samples were identical as compared to the manual method. Of the
four samples that did not concur, three were read as inconclusive and the
manual method identified it as negative. This would indicate a requirement for
a manual review of the sample. The oncoFISH Bladder Test system
demonstrated a 99% concordance rate.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
A trial, designated the reproducibility trial, tested between system agreement.
A total of 50 individual patient slides processed as part of the accuracy study
were evaluated on each of two test systems, with the order of the evaluation
determined randomly.
Results: Of the 50 samples analyzed 49 of the samples were concordant. The
one slide that was not concordant was a negative and an inconclusive. The
most probable reason for this is sample degradation. There was 98 %
concordance of diagnostic outcome between the two evaluations for all of the
slides
c. Linearity:
N/A
6

--- Page 7 ---
d. Carryover:
N/A
e. Interfering Substances:
N/A
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a. Comparison of manual dot count with automated dot count.
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that oncoFISH dot counting is
equivalent to the fastFISH auto/amniocyte dot counting. Two independent-expert
cytotechnologists evaluated images of nuclei obtained using the oncoFISH system
and compared those results to the results of automated scanning of the same
images. The sample consisted of scan data for five slides of which a minimum of
1200 nuclei were to be selected and reviewed.
Results: The study provides evidence that automated scanning, signal recognition
and enumeration software produces FISH signal counts that are in agreement with
those determined by experienced cytotechnologists that have examined the same
images. The overall agreement of the human evaluators and the automated
evaluations was 79% and higher for each chromosome signal analyzed.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
7

--- Page 8 ---
8