
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k062957
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Controls for total PSA (tPSA)
D. Type of Test:
Assayed Quality Control material
E. Applicant:
Qualigen Incorporated
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Qualigen™ FastPack® Total PSA Method Verification Kit
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX, Single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The FastPack® Total PSA Method Verification Kit consists of assayed quality
control materials for verification of the calibration and reportable range of the
FastPack® Total PSA Immunoassay to meet CLIA requirements.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
FastPack® analyzer
I. Device Description:
The FastPack® Total PSA Method Verification Kit consists of three assayed controls
materials targeted at three PSA concentrations: Low Verifier (0 ng/mL), Mid Verifier
(25 ng/mL) and high Verifier (50 ng/mL). The verifiers contain a specified quantity
of human PSA (purified from human seminal fluid) in TRIS buffer supplemented
with bovine serum albumin (BSA) and preservative (0.1% sodium azide).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
FastPack® PSA Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k003095
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Assayed quality control Assayed quality control
materials for verification materials for verification
of the calibration and of the accuracy and
reportable range of the precision of the
FastPack® Total PSA FastPack® Analyzer
Immunoassay to meet system when used for the
CLIA requirements quantitative
determination of PSA in
human serum or plasma
Analytes Total PSA Same
Antigen source Human seminal fluid Same
Matrix BSA in TRIS buffer Same
Format Liquid, ready-to-use Same
Volume 5 mL Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Levels Three levels (0, 25 and 50 Two levels (2 and 10
ng/mL) ng/mL)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry “Points to consider guidance document on assayed and
unassayed quality control material”.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The company provided a general document which outlines the protocols,
materials, calculations and specifications for assigning values to controls and
calibrators for FastPack assay. The following is a brief stepwise description
of the value assignment process:
• Calibrate instruments with master calibrator lot and run released
controls
• Run on-test Calibrator B as a sample and record raw RLU values
• Run on-test Calibrator A and controls as samples and record the
recovered value.
• Runs should be evenly distributed among analyzers and test the
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Assayed quality control
materials for verification
of the calibration and
reportable range of the
FastPack® Total PSA
Immunoassay to meet
CLIA requirements			Assayed quality control
materials for verification
of the accuracy and
precision of the
FastPack® Analyzer
system when used for the
quantitative
determination of PSA in
human serum or plasma		
Analytes			Total PSA			Same		
Antigen source			Human seminal fluid			Same		
Matrix			BSA in TRIS buffer			Same		
Format			Liquid, ready-to-use			Same		
Volume			5 mL			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Levels			Three levels (0, 25 and 50
ng/mL)			Two levels (2 and 10
ng/mL)		

--- Page 3 ---
following samples:
Sample #lots Min # Analyzers Min # runs/lots
Calibrator A 1 1 3
Calibrator B Min of 2 (3 if available) 3 20
Low control 1 3 20
High control 1 3 20
Low verifier 3 3 20
Mid verifier 3 3 20
High verifier 3 3 20
• Use Excel to calculate the mean value of the samples by lot and
analyzer. Results will be in concentration units except for Cal B
which will be in normalized RLU/second
• Specifications – All released values must be within specified
acceptable range and all mean values must be within specified
acceptable limits
Assay Cal A Cal B Low control High Control Low Verifier Mid Verifier High Verifier
ng/mL ng/mL ng/mL Ng/mL ng/mL ng/mL
Total PSA ≤ 0.04 N/A 1-3 5-15 0-0.04 22-28 50-80
• Controls are run during master curve verification of sublot-2 prior to
final value assignment. Compare those control values to the value
assignment. If trends are noted, notify supervisor.
• For PSA, there should be no more than a 10%CV of the data used to
generate the robust mean. If the CV >10%, compare the observed
values to the assigned range. If all observed values fall within the
range, proceed with the value assignment. If any observed value falls
outside the range, determine if it is an outlier. If it is an outlier,
remove the value and recalculate the results. If it is not determined to
be an outlier, notify supervisor and document action taken by retesting
sample and inspect pack.
• There should be no more than a 10% difference between the mean
values (in concentration units) from each lot
• If all pass, proceed to value assignment; if any value fails, generate a
non-conformance report and notify supervisor.
• Value assignment for method verifiers – use Excel to calculate the
mean value (in concentration units) and the SD of the verifiers by
combining all data.
The company claimed that the device is stable for 12 months when stored at
4°C. Shelf life determination was based on accelerated stability study at 25°C
for 32 days, 30°C for 18 days and 37°C for 8 days. Real-time stability testing
for closed and opened vials are ongoing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Sample	#lots	Min # Analyzers	Min # runs/lots
Calibrator A	1	1	3
Calibrator B	Min of 2 (3 if available)	3	20
Low control	1	3	20
High control	1	3	20
Low verifier	3	3	20
Mid verifier	3	3	20
High verifier	3	3	20

[Table 2 on page 3]
Assay	Cal A
ng/mL	Cal B	Low control
ng/mL	High Control
ng/mL	Low Verifier
Ng/mL	Mid Verifier
ng/mL	High Verifier
ng/mL
Total PSA	≤ 0.04	N/A	1-3	5-15	0-0.04	22-28	50-80

--- Page 4 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4