
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062838
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Troponin I
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Reagent Pack
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Calibrators
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Range Verifiers
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Classification Regulation Section Panel
Code
MMI Class II 21 CFR 862.1215, 75, Clinical
Immunoassay method, Chemistry (CH)
troponin subunit
JIT Class II 21 CFR 862.1150, 75, Clinical
Calibrator, Secondary Chemistry (CH)
JJX Class I 21 CFR 862.1660, Single 75, Clinical
(specified) analyte controls Chemistry (CH)
(assayed and unassayed)

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
	Code				
MMI			Class II	21 CFR 862.1215,
Immunoassay method,
troponin subunit	75, Clinical
Chemistry (CH)
JIT			Class II	21 CFR 862.1150,
Calibrator, Secondary	75, Clinical
Chemistry (CH)
JJX			Class I	21 CFR 862.1660, Single
(specified) analyte controls
(assayed and unassayed)	75, Clinical
Chemistry (CH)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Reagent Pack
For in vitro diagnostic use only.
For the quantitative measurement of cardiac Troponin I (cTnI) in human serum
and plasma (heparin and EDTA) using the VITROS Immunodiagnostic System,
to aid in the assessment of myocardial damage and risk stratification.
Cardiac Troponin I measurement aids in the diagnosis of acute myocardial
infarction and in the risk stratification of patients with non-ST-segment elevation
acute coronary syndromes with respect to relative risk of mortality, myocardial
infarction (MI) or increased probability of ischemic events requiring urgent
revascularization procedures.
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Calibrators
For in vitro diagnostic use only.
For use in the calibration of the VITROS Immunodiagnostic System for the
quantitative measurement of cardiac Troponin I (cTnI) in human serum and
plasma (heparin and EDTA).
VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products Troponin I ES Range Verifiers
For in vitro diagnostic use only.
For in vitro use in verifying the calibration range of the VITROS
Immunodiagnostic System when used for the quantitative measurement of
cardiac Troponin I (cTnI).
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use section above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
This device is intended for use with the VITROS Immunodiagnostic System
which includes the ECi and ECiQ model analyzers.
I. Device Description:
One VITROS Troponin I ES Reagent Pack contains:

--- Page 3 ---
• 100 coated wells (streptavidin, binds ≥ 2 ng biotin/well)
• 7.0 mL conjugate reagent (HRP-mouse monoclonal anti-cTnI, binds ≥ 205
ng cTnI/mL) in buffer with bovine serum albumin and antimicrobial
agent.
• 7.0 mL biotinylated antibody reagent (biotin-mouse monoclonal anti-cTnI,
binds ≥ 205 ng cTnI/mL) in buffer with horse serum, bovine serum
albumin, bovine gamma globulin and antimicrobial agent.
VITROS Troponin I ES Calibrators contain: 2 sets of Troponin I ES calibrators 1, 2
and 3 (2 mL liquid, human cTnI in serum with antimicrobial agent); nominal values
0, 0.08, and 15 ng/mL (exact values encoded on the lot calibration card), lot
calibration card, protocol card and 24 calibrator bar code labels (8 for each
calibrator).
Human blood products provided as components of the VITROS Troponin I ES
Calibrators have been obtained from donors who were tested individually and who
were found to be negative for hepatitis B surface antigen, and for antibodies to human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV 1+2) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), using approved
methods (enzyme immunoassays).
VITROS Troponin I ES Range Verifiers contain: 2 sets of VITROS Troponin I ES
Range Verifiers, low and high (2 mL liquid, human cTnI in serum with antimicrobial
agent); nominal values 0, 76 ng/mL.
Human blood products provided as components of the VITROS Troponin I ES
Range Verifiers have been obtained from donors who were tested individually and
who were found to be negative for hepatitis B surface antigen and for antibodies to
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV 1+2) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), using
approved methods (enzyme immunoassays, EIA).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Beckman Access® AccuTnI Troponin I
2. Predicate K number(s):
k974075
3. Comparison with predicate

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Principle Chemiluminescence Chemiluminescence
Antibody Mouse monoclonal Mouse monoclonal
Sample serum and plasma serum and plasma
Type
Intended For the quantitative For the quantitative
Use measurement of cardiac determination of cardiac
Troponin I (cTnI) in human Troponin I (cTnI) levels in
serum and plasma to aid in the human serum and plasma to
assessment of myocardial aid in the diagnosis and
damage and risk stratification. treatment of myocardial
Cardiac Troponin I measurement infarction and cardiac muscle
aids in the diagnosis of acute damage. Cardiac troponin I
myocardial infarction and in the determination aids in the risk
risk stratification of patients with stratification of patients with
non-ST-segment elevation acute unstable angina or non-ST
coronary syndromes with respect segment elevation acute
to relative risk of mortality, coronary syndromes with
myocardial infarction (MI) or respect to relative risk of
increased probability of ischemic mortality, myocardial
events requiring urgent infarction or increased
revascularization procedures. probability of ischemic events
requiring urgent
revascularization procedures.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Measuring range 0.012 - 80.0 ng/mL 0.01 – 100 ng/mL
Hook Effect No high dose hook up to No high dose hook up to
14,000 ng/mL 1,920 ng/mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
CLSI - Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved
Guideline (EP9-A 1995)
CLSI - Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices;
Approved Guideline (EP5-A)
CLSI - Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP7-A)
CLSI – Evaluation of Linearity; Approved Guideline (EP6-A)
CLSI – Limits of Detection and Quantitation; Approved Guideline (EP17-A)
CLSI – Assessment of the Clinical Accuracy of Laboratory Tests Using Receiver
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities							
	Item			Device			Predicate
Principle			Chemiluminescence			Chemiluminescence	
Antibody			Mouse monoclonal			Mouse monoclonal	
Sample
Type			serum and plasma			serum and plasma	
Intended
Use			For the quantitative
measurement of cardiac
Troponin I (cTnI) in human
serum and plasma to aid in the
assessment of myocardial
damage and risk stratification.
Cardiac Troponin I measurement
aids in the diagnosis of acute
myocardial infarction and in the
risk stratification of patients with
non-ST-segment elevation acute
coronary syndromes with respect
to relative risk of mortality,
myocardial infarction (MI) or
increased probability of ischemic
events requiring urgent
revascularization procedures.			For the quantitative
determination of cardiac
Troponin I (cTnI) levels in
human serum and plasma to
aid in the diagnosis and
treatment of myocardial
infarction and cardiac muscle
damage. Cardiac troponin I
determination aids in the risk
stratification of patients with
unstable angina or non-ST
segment elevation acute
coronary syndromes with
respect to relative risk of
mortality, myocardial
infarction or increased
probability of ischemic events
requiring urgent
revascularization procedures.	

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences							
	Item			Device			Predicate
Measuring range			0.012 - 80.0 ng/mL			0.01 – 100 ng/mL	
Hook Effect			No high dose hook up to
14,000 ng/mL			No high dose hook up to
1,920 ng/mL	

[Table 3 on page 4]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
CLSI - Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved
Guideline (EP9-A 1995)
CLSI - Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices;
Approved Guideline (EP5-A)
CLSI - Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP7-A)
CLSI – Evaluation of Linearity; Approved Guideline (EP6-A)
CLSI – Limits of Detection and Quantitation; Approved Guideline (EP17-A)
CLSI – Assessment of the Clinical Accuracy of Laboratory Tests Using Receiver

--- Page 5 ---
Operating Characteristic (ROC) Plots; Approved Guideline (GP10-A)
CLSI – How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory;
Approved Guideline (C28-A2)
L. Test Principle:
The VITROS Troponin I ES assay is performed using the VITROS Troponin I ES
Reagent Pack and the VITROS Troponin I ES Calibrators on the VITROS
Immunodiagnostic System using Intellicheck® Technology. An immunometric
immunoassay technique is used, which involves the simultaneous reaction of cardiac
Troponin I present in the sample with a biotinylated antibody (mouse monoclonal
anti-cTnI) and a horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-labeled antibody conjugate (mouse
monoclonal anti-cTnI). The antigen-antibody complex is captured by streptavidin on
the wells. Unbound materials are removed by washing. The bound HRP conjugate is
measured by a luminescent reaction. A reagent containing luminogenic substrates (a
luminol derivative and a peracid salt) and an electron transfer agent, is added to the
wells. The HRP in the bound conjugate catalyzes the oxidation of the luminol
derivative, producing light. The electron transfer agent (a substituted acetanilide)
increases the level of light produced and prolongs its emission. The light signals are
read by the VITROS Immunodiagnostic System. The amount of HRP conjugate
bound is directly proportional to the concentration of cTnI present.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was evaluated consistent with CLSI document EP5. Two replicates
of each of 2 frozen control sera and 4 frozen human sample pools were
assayed on 2 separate occasions per day on at least 20 different days. The
experiment was performed using 3 reagent lots on 3 different VITROS
Immunodiagnostic Systems.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Operating Characteristic (ROC) Plots; Approved Guideline (GP10-A)
CLSI – How to Define and Determine Reference Intervals in the Clinical Laboratory;
Approved Guideline (C28-A2)

--- Page 6 ---
* Within-run (Repeatability): Between-duplicate precision was determined using
duplicate determinations.
** Within-calibration: Total within calibration precision was determined using a single
lot of reagent over a single calibration interval.
***Within-lab: Total within-lab precision was estimated using a single reagent lot
calibrated weekly.
To assess the low-end precision, eight low troponin I serum sample pools
were tested in singleton, twice a day on 20 occasions over 28 days using 2 lots
of reagent. From the resulting imprecision profiles, the coefficient of variation
(CV) at the 99th percentile URL of 0.034 ng/mL was 10%. This % CV was
determined using a combined mean value using both lots tested. This
demonstrates that the VITROS Troponin I ES assay meets the
recommendations as described by the ESC/ACC that the assay should have
the imprecision (total CV) at the 99th percentile cutoff of 10% or less.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Two buffer based pools with mean analyte concentrations of 0.011 ng/mL and
83.9 ng/mL respectively, were mixed in varying proportions to give a total of
11 pools. A total of 30 singleton determinations of pools 1 and 11, and 9
singleton determinations of pools 2 to 10 were made using 3 Master Lots.
Calculated concentrations of pools 2 to 10 were determined from the mean
measured concentrations of pools 1 and 11. These calculated concentrations
were then compared with the mean measured concentrations of pools 2 to 10.
The mean measured concentrations of pools 2 to 10, when expressed as a
percentage of the calculated concentrations, gave a mean result of 97.5%, with
a range of 96.4% to 99.6%. Analysis by linear regression indicated that the
6

--- Page 7 ---
assay is linear across the range tested (0.011 to 83.9 ng/mL) with an R2 of
0.9996.
To assess low end linearity, two buffer based pools with mean analyte
concentrations of 0.002 ng/mL and 0.155 ng/mL respectively, were mixed in
varying proportions to give a total of 11 pools. A total of 30 singleton
determinations of pools 1 and 11, and 9 singleton determinations of pools 2 to
10 were made using 3 Master Lots. Calculated concentrations of pools 2 to 10
were determined from the mean measured concentrations of pools 1 and 11.
These calculated concentrations were then compared with the mean measured
concentrations of pools 2 to 10. The mean measured concentrations of pools 2
to 10, when expressed as a percentage of the calculated concentrations, gave a
mean result of 103%. The mean measured concentrations of pools 3 to 10,
when expressed as a percentage of the calculated concentrations, gave a mean
result of 106%. Analysis by linear regression also indicated that the assay is
linear across the range of 0.015 to 0.155 ng/mL with an R2 of 0.9955.
Hook Effect:
A series of samples having Troponin I concentrations ranging from 1.44 to
14,442 ng/mL were assayed in the VITROS Troponin I ES assay.
Singleton determinations of each sample were made with each of 3 Master
Lots. The high dose hook of the VITROS Troponin I ES assay was shown to
be greater than 14,442 ng/mL.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The calibration for the VITROS Troponin I ES assay is defined by a set of
Reference Calibrators. The Reference Calibrators are calibrated against a
commercially available Troponin I ES assay. The Reference Calibrators are
used to construct a number of Reference Calibration Curves (RCCs) from
which a Master Curve may be established. This was used to determine the
Troponin I ES concentration in the Calibrators for each Master Lot, as
well as providing the Master Curve data for the Lot Calibration card.
To establish the open-stability of the VITROS Troponin I ES Range Verifiers,
the verifiers were pooled and stored in sample cups at 2-8°C. The pooled
Range Verifiers were tested at the initial time point (day 0) and days 4 and 7
of the trial using three Master Kit Lots and three lots of VITROS Troponin I
ES Range Verifiers. The data supports the storage of the VITROS Troponin I
ES Range Verifiers at 2-8°C for up to 7 days.
To establish the open-stability of the VITROS Troponin I ES Calibrators, the
calibrators were opened, pooled and stored in sample cups at 2-8°C. The
pooled calibrators were tested at the initial time point. The calibrators stored
at 2-8°C were tested at weeks 2, 4, 8 and 10. The data supports the storage of
the calibrators at 2-8°C after opening for up to 10 weeks.
7

--- Page 8 ---
d. Detection limit:
The limit of detection (LoD) for the VITROS Troponin I ES assay using
human serum pools is 0.012 ng/mL, determined consistent with CLSI
document EP17 and with proportions of false positives less than 1% and false
negatives less than 1%; based on 600 determinations, with 150 blank and 450
low-level samples. The limit of quantitation (LoQ) is 0.012 ng/mL as
determined by the lowest concentration at which precision and accuracy
design requirements are still met and are within the linear range of the assay.
e. Analytical specificity:
The VITROS Troponin I ES assay was evaluated for interference consistent
with CLSI document EP7. Commonly encountered substances were tested on
3 lots of reagents. Of the compounds tested, hemoglobin may interfere with
the VITROS Troponin I ES assay resulting in a positive bias as shown in the
table below.
* Average test concentration of replicate determinations using three different
lots of reagent, concentration below the measuring range.
** Estimate of the average difference observed.
The VITROS Troponin I ES assay was evaluated for interference consistent
with CLSI document EP7. Of the compounds tested, none was found to cause
a bias of >10% with the assay at the concentrations indicated at clinically
relevant cTnI concentrations of 0.400 ng/mL
8

--- Page 9 ---
The cross-reactivity of the VITROS Troponin I ES assay was evaluated by adding
the following substances to samples containing no analyte.
*ND = Not Detectable. Concentration was below the measuring range of the
assay.
Cross-reactivity was expressed as the mean result obtained for the cross-
reactant pool divided by the cross-reactant concentration in percentage term.
f. Assay cut-off:
The 99th Percentile Upper reference Limit (URL) is 0.034 ng/mL.
The VITROS Troponin I ES assay AMI diagnostic cutoff is 0.120 ng/mL. See
Clinical Cut-off section below for more details.
9

--- Page 10 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A method comparison was performed based on CLSI document EP9 using
samples analyzed on the VITROS Immunodiagnostic System with those
analyzed using the Beckman Unicel™ DxI 800 Access Immunoassay System.
The relationship between the two methods was determined by Deming
regression. VITROS Troponin I ES = 0.9790 x Beckman Access AccuTnI +
0.2191 ng/mL with samples ranging from 0.015 to 73.5 ng/mL (n = 260).
b. Matrix comparison:
Individual results from 20 donors using three determinations of each sample
type (serum, EDTA plasma, and heparin plasma) and after storage at 2-8º C
for 5 and 7 days and after 4 weeks at -20 º C were tabulated. The mean value
for each specimen type within each storage condition was calculated from the
three determinations. The overall mean, SD and CV (%) for each sample type
across storage conditions were also calculated. For each condition (sample
type or storage), % differences were calculated from the baseline (serum for
specimen type and fresh for storage condition). The mean and range of the %
differences, across all samples, for each condition were calculated. The results
indicated that all sample types are suitable (< 10% mean percent difference)
for use in the VITROS Troponin I ES assay and that their suitability is not
affected by storage.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Samples were collected and analyzed at two independent clinical sites for
sensitivity and specificity. Samples were collected at the time intervals
indicated in the chart below, determined from the time of admission. Sample
results were generated using the VITROS Troponin I ES assay. Troponin I
concentrations were evaluated in serial samples collected from a combined
total of 506 prospectively enrolled individuals presenting with symptoms of
Acute Coronary Syndrome. This patient population consisted of 289 males
and 217 females ranging in age from 23 to 95. A total of 73 patients were
diagnosed as AMI positive and 433 were diagnosed as non-AMI according to
ACC/ESC/AHA criteria. A total of 1696 plasma and serum samples were
collected from the 506 patients from the two clinical sites. Site 1 provided a
total of 1393 samples. Site 2 provided a total of 303 samples. The data are
presented in the table below:
10

--- Page 11 ---
Hours Post Admission
0-6 hrs 6-12 hrs 12-24 hrs
VITROS Troponin I % 70 89 90
ES Assay Sensitivity (86/123) (78/88) (43/48)
(AMI cutoff = 0.120 % 96 94 94
ng/mL) Specificity (683/711) (420/447) (206/220)
Sensitivity/Specificity
(Combined Data using Peak Sample from each Serial Draw)
Sites 1 and 2: VITROS Troponin I ES
N 506
Cut-Off value > 0.12
With AMI Without AMI Total
Positive Result 69 31 100
Negative Result 4 402 406
Total 73 433 506
Sensitivity 94.52 %
Specificity 93.08 %
b. Clinical specificity:
See Clinical Sensitivity section
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Risk Stratification
In a prospective study, 395 patients with myocardial ischemia symptoms
suggestive of Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) were hospitalized in one
medical center to rule in or rule out myocardial infarction (MI). Serial blood
samples were obtained from each patient and tested using the VITROS
Troponin I ES assay. These patients were followed up after baseline cTnI
testing and monitored for short-term adverse cardiac events, which include re-
hospitalization due to recurring ischemia, MI and all cause death.
The results were analyzed using the 99th percentile upper reference limit
(0.034 ng/mL), as recommended by the ESC/ACC/AHA consensus document
for the redefinition of MI.
The findings from this study verified previous clinical studies that showed
patients with minor increases in cTnI values provide prognostic information
about the long and short-term risk of death for patients with ACS. The data
collected from this study indicate that patients with baseline cardiac troponin I
values above the 99th percentile upper reference limit had a significantly
higher short-term risk of death or recurrent ischemic events after presentation.
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
		Hours Post Admission								
		0-6 hrs			6-12 hrs			12-24 hrs		
VITROS Troponin I
ES Assay
(AMI cutoff = 0.120
ng/mL)	%
Sensitivity		70			89			90	
			(86/123)			(78/88)			(43/48)	
	%
Specificity		96			94			94	
			(683/711)			(420/447)			(206/220)	

--- Page 12 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
The 99th Percentile Upper Reference Limit (URL) is 0.034 ng/mL. This value
was based on 21 estimates of the URL using over 10,000 serum, heparin and
EDTA plasma samples from individual donors and included variation from raw
materials, analyzer, operator, manufacturing processes and reagent age. The URL
of 0.034 ng/mL was selected as the highest value determined from the multiple
determinations of the 99th percentile. The 99th percentile values from the multiple
studies ranged from 0.012 to 0.034 ng/mL.
The VITROS Troponin I ES assay AMI diagnostic cutoff is 0.120 ng/mL. A
clinical study was performed consistent with CLSI document GP10. The study
was conducted at two external clinical sites using prospectively collected, serially
drawn specimens. A total of 506 patients with symptoms of acute coronary
syndrome (ACS) were diagnosed as AMI or non-AMI according to the
ESC/ACC/AHA criteria. 73 patients were diagnosed as AMI and 433 patients
12

--- Page 13 ---
were diagnosed as non-AMI. The peak sample from each patient's serial draw was
obtained and used in the analysis. The peak cTnI result is defined as the highest
cTnI concentration observed in the serial draw obtained from each patient.
The Receiver Operator Curve (ROC) compares clinical sensitivity and specificity
at various decision thresholds. The optimum decision threshold maximizes the
area under the curve (AUC) and represents the highest sensitivity and specificity
for the assay. The AUC for the VITROS Troponin I ES assay was 0.963. Using
the cutoff of 0.120 ng/mL cTnI, the sensitivity of the VITROS Troponin I ES
assay was 95% (95% CI of 87%–99%) and the specificity was 93% (95% CI of
90%–95%).
5. Expected values/Reference range:
See Clinical cut-off section
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
13