
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062593
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
CK-MB, Troponin I, Myoglobin and BNP
D. Type of Test:
Quality control materials
E. Applicant:
Compass Bioscience
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Cardiac Markers Control
Cardiac Markers Calibration Verification Control Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660 - Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJY
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use statement below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Compass Bioscience Cardiac Markers Controls are to be used as a quality
control material to assess the accuracy and precision of laboratory test methods
used to measure the antigens and enzymes contained in the control. It is intended
to validate the measurement of these analytes in patient samples.
Three levels of control are provided to allow the performance of the analyte test
methods to be monitored within the clinically significant range.
The Compass Bioscience Cardiac Marker Calibration Verification Control Set is
used to verify the calibration of various test methods over the measurable range of
the test.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Biosite Triage® MeterPlus, Abbott AxSYM® and Bayer ADVIA Centaur®
I. Device Description:
The Compass Bioscience Cardiac Markers Controls is a frozen tri-level human (2
vials per level) plasma based control containing preservatives, stabilizers and sodium
azide.
The Compass Cardiac Markers Calibration Verification Control Set is frozen 4-level
(2 vials per level) liquid human EDTA plasma based control set containing
preservatives, stabilizers and sodium azide.
The four level calibration verification set includes a zero level as level1. Levels 2-4
of the calibration verifiers are targeted at the same levels as levels 1-3 of the control.
All donor units used in the controls and calibrators have been tested using FDA
2

--- Page 3 ---
accepted methods and have been found non-reactive for Hepatitis B surface antigen
(HBsAg), antibodies to Hepatitis C, HIV ½ and syphilis, and for HIV-1 and HCV
RNA.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Liquid Cardiac Markers 1,2,3
Triage Profiler SOB Controls and Triage Profiler SOB Calibration Verification
Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k050537
k040459
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Monitor the precision of Monitor the precision of
test methods established test methods established
in individual laboratories in individual laboratories
and to verify the and to verify the
calibration. calibration.
Matrix Human EDTA Plasma Human EDTA Plasma
Liquid, Frozen Liquid, Frozen
Type Multi-analyte Multi-analyte
Levels Controls:3 Controls:2
Calibration verification Calibrators:5
materials:4
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyte CK-MB, Troponin I, Ck-MB, Troponin I,
Myoglobin, BNP Myoglobin, BNP, D-
Dimer
Stability -20© Twelve months -20© Twenty-four months
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Monitor the precision of
test methods established
in individual laboratories
and to verify the
calibration.			Monitor the precision of
test methods established
in individual laboratories
and to verify the
calibration.		
Matrix			Human EDTA Plasma
Liquid, Frozen			Human EDTA Plasma
Liquid, Frozen		
Type			Multi-analyte			Multi-analyte		
Levels			Controls:3
Calibration verification
materials:4			Controls:2
Calibrators:5		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			CK-MB, Troponin I,
Myoglobin, BNP			Ck-MB, Troponin I,
Myoglobin, BNP, D-
Dimer		
Stability			-20© Twelve months			-20© Twenty-four months		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS C24-A2 Statistical Quality Control for Quantitative Measurements
L. Test Principle:
N/A
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
N/A
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Compass Bioscience Cardiac Marker Controls and Calibration
Verification Controls are prepared from human plasma separated from whole
blood drawn in EDTA anticoagulant at FDA inspected blood center from
traceable donors. The materials are formulated to target concentrations for
each analyte. The control ranges were established from in-house and
interlaboratory data, based on replicate assays on the instruments listed in the
package insert. Ranges were determined based on 2SD – 3SD of the overall
mean values. The sponsor makes the recommendation in the labeling that each
laboratory should establish its own parameters for the controls for each
method.
Stability
Accelerated closed and real-time open stability studies were conducted with
the Compass Bioscience Cardiac Marker Controls and Calibration
Verification Control using the Kennon stability prediction models. The
analytes studied were CK-MB, myoglobin, Troponin-I and BNP. Testing at
the Compass Bioscience laboratory used the Triage MeterPlus with the
Profiler SOB Panel, Triage CardioProfilER Panel and the Triage Cardiac
Panel. Tested at an outside laboratories was conducted with the Abbott
AxSYM and the Bayer ADVIA Centaur. Frozen control samples were
allowed to that at room temperature (or incubation at refrigerated temperature
for accelerated stability studies). Closed stability represents storage from -20
C. Open/closed vial stability represents storage at 2-8 C between uses. The
4

--- Page 5 ---
results from the accelerated studies support the sponsors’ claims for open
stability of 14 or 30 days and closed stability of 1 or 2 years depending on the
analyte. Please see the following table for exact specifics.
The four level calibration verification set includes a zero level as level1.
Levels 2-4 of the calibration verifiers are targeted at the same levels as levels
1-3 of the control.
Compass Bioscience Cardiac Marker Controls
Open Closed Closed
Level 1 CK-MB 30 days 2 years
Myoglobin 30 days 2 years
Troponin I 14 days 1 year
BNP 14 days 1 year
Levels 2 & 3 CK-MB 30 days 2 years
Myoglobin 30 days 2 years
Troponin I 14 days 2 years
BNP 14 days 2 years
Compass Cardiac Markers Calibration Verification Control Set
Open Closed Closed
Level 2 CK-MB 30 days 2 years
Myoglobin 30 days 2 years
Troponin I 14 days 1 years
BNP 14 days 1 years
Levels 3 & 4 CK-MB 30 days 2 years
Myoglobin 30 days 2 years
Troponin I 14 days 2 year
BNP 14 days 2 year
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Compass Bioscience Cardiac Marker Controls			
		Open Closed	Closed
Level 1	CK-MB	30 days	2 years
	Myoglobin	30 days	2 years
	Troponin I	14 days	1 year
	BNP	14 days	1 year
Levels 2 & 3	CK-MB	30 days	2 years
	Myoglobin	30 days	2 years
	Troponin I	14 days	2 years
	BNP	14 days	2 years
Compass Cardiac Markers Calibration Verification Control Set			
		Open Closed	Closed
Level 2	CK-MB	30 days	2 years
	Myoglobin	30 days	2 years
	Troponin I	14 days	1 years
	BNP	14 days	1 years
Levels 3 & 4	CK-MB	30 days	2 years
	Myoglobin	30 days	2 years
	Troponin I	14 days	2 year
	BNP	14 days	2 year

--- Page 6 ---
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values for the materials are provided in the package insert. The sponsor
makes the recommendation in the labeling that each laboratory should establish
its own parameters for the controls for each method.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6