
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k062211
B. Purpose for Submission:
This is an original bundled application for a new multiplexed flow immunoassay for
the qualitative detection of IgG antibodies of 3 separate analytes; Epstein-Barr Virus
Nuclear Antigen (EBV NA-1), Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV VCA), and Early Antigen
diffuse (EBV EA-D) in human serum to aid in the diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis.
C. Measurand:
Epstein-Barr Virus Nuclear Antigen (EBV NA-1), Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV VCA),
and Early Antigen diffuse (EBV EA-D)
D. Type of Test:
Multiplexed flow immunoassay
E. Applicant:
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG Panel on the BioPlex 2200 Multi-Analyte
Detection System
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG Control Set
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG Calibrator Set
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LSE I 866.3235 - Microbiology (83)
EPSTEIN-BARR
VIRUS
SEROLOGICAL
REAGENTS
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LSE			I			866.3235 -
EPSTEIN-BARR
VIRUS
SEROLOGICAL
REAGENTS			Microbiology (83)		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The BioPlex™ 2200 EBV IgG kit is a multiplex flow immunoassay intended for the
qualitative detection of IgG antibodies to three (3) separate EBV antigens; Epstein-Barr
Virus Nuclear Antigen-1 (EBV NA-1), Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV VCA), and Early
Antigen diffuse (EBV EA-D) in human serum. The test system can be used in
conjunction with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit as an aid in the laboratory diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis (IM).
The EBV IgG kit is intended for use with the Bio-Rad BioPlex 2200 System.
Assay performance characteristics have not been established for immunocompromised or
immunosuppressed patients, cord blood, neonatal specimens, or infants. Assay
performance characteristics have not been established for the diagnosis of
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Burkitt’s lymphoma, and other EBV-associated lymphomas.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit is intended for use with the BioPlex 2200 System
instrument and software.
I. Device Description:
The EBV IgG kit is a multiplex flow immunoassay for the qualitative detection of
IgG antibodies to three (3) separate EBV antigens; Epstein-Barr Virus Nuclear
Antigen-1 (EBV NA-1), Viral Capsid Antigen (EBV VCA), and Early Antigen
diffuse (EBV EA-D) in human serum. See test principle below for more details.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Predicate Device 1: EBNA IGG EIA TEST SYSTEM by Immuno Probe, Inc.
510k number: K951549
Component Similarities
Device Predicate
Measurand EBNA-1 IgG EBNA-1 IgG
Matrices Serum Serum
Intended Use Aid in diagnosis of Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis infectious mononucleosis
Differences
Device Predicate
Technology Multiplexed flow Traditional ELISA
immunoassay
Intended Use Qualitative detection Semi-quantitative detection
Predicate Device 2: EBV VCA IGG EIA TEST SYSTEM by Immuno Probe, Inc.
510k number: K980912
Component Similarities
Device Predicate
Measurand EBV VCA IgG EBV VCA IgG
Matrices Serum Serum
Intended Use Qualitative detection of Qualitative detection of
EBV VCA IgG to aid in EBV VCA IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis mononucleosis
Differences
Device Predicate
Technology Multiplexed flow Traditional ELISA
immunoassay
Predicate Device 3: EBV EA-D IGG EIA TEST SYSTEM by Immuno Probe, Inc.
510k number: K973123
Component Similarities
Device Predicate
Measurand EBV EA-D IgG EBV EA-D IgG
Matrices Serum Serum
Intended Use Qualitative detection of Qualitative detection of
EBV EA-D IgG to aid in EBV EA-D IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis mononucleosis
Differences
Device Predicate
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Component	Similarities	
	Device	Predicate
Measurand	EBNA-1 IgG	EBNA-1 IgG
Matrices	Serum	Serum
Intended Use	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis	Aid in diagnosis of
infectious mononucleosis
	Differences	
	Device	Predicate
Technology	Multiplexed flow
immunoassay	Traditional ELISA
Intended Use	Qualitative detection	Semi-quantitative detection

[Table 2 on page 3]
Component	Similarities	
	Device	Predicate
Measurand	EBV VCA IgG	EBV VCA IgG
Matrices	Serum	Serum
Intended Use	Qualitative detection of
EBV VCA IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis	Qualitative detection of
EBV VCA IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis
	Differences	
	Device	Predicate
Technology	Multiplexed flow
immunoassay	Traditional ELISA

[Table 3 on page 3]
Component	Similarities	
	Device	Predicate
Measurand	EBV EA-D IgG	EBV EA-D IgG
Matrices	Serum	Serum
Intended Use	Qualitative detection of
EBV EA-D IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis	Qualitative detection of
EBV EA-D IgG to aid in
diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis
	Differences	
	Device	Predicate

--- Page 4 ---
Technology Multiplexed flow Traditional ELISA
immunoassay
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition (EP5-A2)
Other Standards
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
Review Criteria for In Vitro
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/527.pdf
Diagnostic Devices for Detection
OIVD DIHD
of IGM Antibodies to Viral
Agents
Guidance on Informed Consent
for In Vitro Diagnostic Device
Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/oivd/guidance/1588.html
CBER/
Individually Identifiable -
OIVD
Guidance for Sponsors,
Institutional Review Boards,
Clinical Investigators and FDA
Staff
L. Test Principle:
The EBV IgG kit uses multiplex flow immunoassay, a methodology that greatly
resembles traditional EIA, but permits simultaneous detection and identification of
many antibodies in a single tube. Three (3) different populations of beads are coated
with E. coli derived recombinant proteins, EBV NA-1 (28kD and 45kD), EBV VCA
p18 (40kD), and EBV EA-D (28kD) associated with infectious mononucleosis. The
BioPlex 2200 System combines an aliquot of patient sample, sample diluent, and
bead reagent into a reaction vessel. The mixture is incubated at 37°C. After a wash
cycle, antihuman IgG antibody, conjugated to phycoerythrin (PE), is added to the
dyed beads and this mixture is incubated at 37°C. The excess conjugate is removed
in another wash cycle, and the beads are re-suspended in wash buffer. The bead
mixture then passes through the detector. The identity of the dyed beads is
determined by the fluorescence of the dyes, and the amount of antibody captured by
the antigen is determined by the fluorescence of the attached PE. Raw data is
calculated in relative fluorescence intensity (RFI).
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Technology	Multiplexed flow
immunoassay	Traditional ELISA

[Table 2 on page 4]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (EP 7-A)
Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition (EP5-A2)

[Table 3 on page 4]
Other Standards			
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
Review Criteria for In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices for Detection
of IGM Antibodies to Viral
Agents	OIVD	DIHD	http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/527.pdf
Guidance on Informed Consent
for In Vitro Diagnostic Device
Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not
Individually Identifiable -
Guidance for Sponsors,
Institutional Review Boards,
Clinical Investigators and FDA
Staff	CBER/
OIVD		http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/oivd/guidance/1588.html
			

--- Page 5 ---
Three additional dyed beads, an Internal Standard Bead (ISB), a Serum Verification
Bead (SVB) and a Reagent Blank Bead (RBB) are present in each reaction mixture to
verify detector response, the addition of serum to the reaction vessel and the absence
of significant non-specific binding in serum. Refer to the BioPlex 2200 System
Operation Manual for more information. The instrument is calibrated using a set of
seven (7) distinct calibrator vials, supplied separately by Bio-Rad Laboratories. A
combination of four (4) vials representing four (4) different antibody concentrations
are used for calibration. The result for each of these antibodies is expressed as an
antibody index (AI).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision Studies:
A precision panel, consisting of six (6) panel members was prepared by Bio-Rad
Laboratories. Two (2) of the six (6) panel members had high levels of the
antibodies contained in the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit (EBV NA-1 IgG, EBV
VCA IgG, and EBV EA-D IgG) and two (2) of the six (6) panel members had
antibody levels near the cutoff, both prepared from positive patient samples. Two
(2) of the six (6) panel members were negative (one high negative and one low
negative) for both of the analytes. Precision testing was performed at Bio-Rad
Laboratories on one lot of the EBV IgG kit, one lot of the EBV IgG Calibrator Set
and one lot of the EBV IgG Control Set. Each of the six (6) panel members was
tested in duplicate (x2) on two (2) runs per day for ten (10) days using one (1) lot
of EBV IgG kit, one (1) lot of EBV IgG Calibrator Set and one (1) lot of EBV
IgG Control Set (2 times x 2 runs x 10 days = 40 replicates per panel member).
The data were analyzed for intra-assay and inter-assay precision according to the
principles described in the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute guidance EP5-
A2, revised November 2004 and ISO/TR 22971:2205. The standard deviation
(SD) and percent coefficient of variation (%CV) were calculated. Results can be
found in Tables S - U.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Reproducibility Studies:
A reproducibility panel, consisting of nine (9) panel members was prepared by
Bio-Rad Laboratories. Two (2) of the nine (9) panel members had high levels of
EBV NA-1 and EBV VCA; two (2) of the nine (9) panel members had high levels
6

--- Page 7 ---
of EBV EA-D; two (2) of the nine (9) panel members had antibody levels near the
cutoff for EBV NA-1 and EBV VCA; two (2) of the nine (9) panel members had
antibody levels near the cutoff for EBV EA-D. All were prepared from positive
patient samples. One (1) of the nine (9) panel members was negative for all three
(3) analytes contained in the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit. In addition, three (3) lots
of the EBV IgG Control Set [1 positive control (antibody positive) and a negative
control (antibody negative)] were also tested. Reproducibility testing was
performed at each of three (3) US testing facilities on a total of three (3) lots of
the EBV IgG kit, three (3) lots of the EBV IgG Calibrator Set and three (3) lots of
the EBV IgG Control Set. Each testing facility evaluated reproducibility using
one (1) kit lot of EBV IgG with matched calibrators and controls. The panels
were provided to each of the testing sites. Each of the nine (9) panel members
and positive and negative controls was tested in quadruple (x4) on each day for
three (3) days at each of three (3) US testing facilities using one (1) lot of EBV
IgG reagent pack, one (1) lot of EBV IgG Calibrator Set and one (1) lot of EBV
IgG Control Set (4 times x 3 days x 3 sites = 36 replicates per panel member and
controls). The data were analyzed for intra-assay and inter-assay reproducibility
according to the principles described in the Clinical Laboratory Standards
Institute guidance EP5-A2, revised November 2004 and ISO/TR 22971:2205.
The standard deviation (SD) and percent coefficient of variation (%CV) were
calculated. Positive results can be found in Tables P-R.
7

--- Page 8 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not Applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
8

--- Page 9 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
A cross-reactivity study was performed to determine if samples from various
disease states and other potentially interfering factors interfere with test results
when tested with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit. A panel of ten (10)
specimens* positive for each cross reactant were evaluated for possible cross
reactivity with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit for each of the three EBV IgG
antibody assays. Due to the high prevalence of EBV IgG antibodies in the
normal population, the test specimens were also evaluated on corresponding
commercially available microplate EIAs. Most of the samples evaluated were
high positive for each disease state. The majority of all samples that elicited a
positive result were also confirmed positive by the corresponding
commercially available microplate EIA, indicating reactivity to EBV IgG
antibodies rather than cross reactivity with a potentially interfering factor.
Results can be found in Table S.
*Due to limited availability of samples, only four E. coli specimens were
evaluated.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Interfering Substances:
Testing for interfering substances was conducted according to CLSI
Protocol EP7-A (Vol. 22, No. 27). No significant interference was
observed in any of the substances tested. The following substances, listed
in Table T, were tested (N=10) at maximum levels on one reagent lot.
f. Assay cut-off:
A final cut-off of 1 AI was established for all BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit
assays based on an evaluation of 808 serum samples with the BioPlex 2200
EBV IgG kit assays and corresponding commercially available microplate
EIA tests. ROC analysis was performed for each BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG
assay using this population of samples. Samples that were equivocal on the
commercially available microplate EIA tests were excluded from the analysis.
This analysis was used to optimize sensitivity and specificity for the BioPlex
2200 EBV IgG kit assays. A final cut-off of 1 AI was established for all
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit assays based on the data collected.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance of the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit was tested against
corresponding commercially available microplate EIAs. A total of 621 banked
serum samples from patients for which an EBV test were ordered were tested
at 3 U.S. clinical testing sites. The BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG kit was run in
conjunction with the BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM kit to allow for a complete
antibody response profile. The characterization by antibody response was not
compared with clinical data regarding presence, absence or status of disease.
Two (2) samples were excluded due to RBB analysis error messages during
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgM testing. One (1) sample was excluded due to RBB
10

--- Page 11 ---
analysis error messages during BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG testing. Using Table
A as a guideline, results were analyzed by BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG analytes
and corresponding EBV IgG reference assays according to serological
characterization based on reference assay results. For the purpose of percent
agreement calculations, BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG equivocal results were
assigned to the opposite clinical interpretation than that of the corresponding
reference assay result. Likewise, the reference IgG assay equivocal results
were assigned to the opposite clinical interpretation than that of the
corresponding BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG result. Results from all sites are shown
and summarized in Tables H-M.
11

--- Page 12 ---
12

--- Page 13 ---
Comparison of Characterization EBV Serological Status:
Using Table A as a guideline, samples characterized into serological status
associated with EBV disease, using the commercially available microplate
EIA and agglutination tests, were compared with characterizations using
BioPlex 2200 EBV IgG and IgM kits. The EBV IgG kit was run in
conjunction with the EBV IgM kit to allow for a complete antibody
response profile. The characterization by antibody response was not
compared with clinical data regarding presence, absence or status of
disease. Results from 618 serum samples tested at 3 U.S. clinical testing
sites are shown in Table N.
13

--- Page 14 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values for the EBV IgG kit are presented by age and gender in the
following tables for serum samples from unselected hospitalized pediatric and
adult patients (N=303) and patients for which an EBV test was ordered (N=620).
A total of 621 serum samples from patients for which an EBV test was ordered
were tested. One (1) sample from the patients for which an EBV test was ordered
population was excluded due to RBB analysis error messages during BioPlex
2200 EBV IgG testing. For all analytes, results of ≤0.8 AI are negative, 0.9 and
1.0 AI are indeterminate, and ≥1.1 AI are reported as positive.
14

--- Page 15 ---
15

--- Page 16 ---
16

--- Page 17 ---
17

--- Page 18 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
18