
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063398
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for lead in whole blood
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bionostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ESA LeadCare II Lead Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.3280
2. Classification:
Class I, (reserved)
3. Product code:
DIF
4. Panel:
91, Toxicology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
ESA Biosciences LeadCare II Control is intended to be used to monitor and
evaluate the analytical performance of the ESA Biosciences LeadCare II Analyzer
for the measurement of lea in blood. The use of quality control materials is
indicated as an objective assessment of the precision of methods and techniques in
use and is an integral part of good laboratory practice. The two levels of lead
provided by the controls allow performance monitoring within the clinically
important range.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
ESA Biosciences LeadCare II Lead Analyzer
I. Device Description:
The ESA LeadCare II Control contains two levels of quality control material. The
control materials are an aqueous solution containing bovine albumin, lead, buffers,
preservative and dye in concentrations determined optimal for the LeadCare II
System. The controls are provided ready-to-use.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Kaulson Labs LeadCare Lead Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k830234
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities/Differences
Item Device Predicate
Name LeadCare II Lead Control Kaulson Labs LeadCare
Lead Control
Description Aqueous solution Lyophilized whole
containing bovine bovine blood with
albumin, salts, measured water for
preservatives and dye dilution
Intended Use LeadCare II Lead Same
Controls are intended for
use as a quality control to
monitor the precision of
measurement and verify
the performance of the
ESA Biosciences
LeadCare II System at
two distinct levels within
the measurement range.
Levels 2 2
Analytes Lead Lead
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA 21 CFR 820 Quality System Regulation
Directive 98/79/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 October
1998 on in vitro diagnostics medical devices
ISO 13485:2003; Quality Systems. Medical Devices – Quality Management Systems
Requirements for regulatory purposes.
ISO 14971:2000. Medical Devices: Application of risk analysis to medical devices.
ISO 15223:2002. Medical devices – Symbols to be used with medical device labels,
labeling and information to be supplied.
Points to consider guidance document on assayed and unassayed quality control
material. US FDA, Feb 3 1999
Use of Symbols on Labels and in Labeling of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended
for Professional Use, US FDA, Nov 30, 2004
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable. This submission is for clearance of control material.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities/Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Name			LeadCare II Lead Control			Kaulson Labs LeadCare
Lead Control		
Description			Aqueous solution
containing bovine
albumin, salts,
preservatives and dye			Lyophilized whole
bovine blood with
measured water for
dilution		
Intended Use			LeadCare II Lead
Controls are intended for
use as a quality control to
monitor the precision of
measurement and verify
the performance of the
ESA Biosciences
LeadCare II System at
two distinct levels within
the measurement range.			Same		
Levels			2			2		
Analytes			Lead			Lead		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The ESA Control is prepared by gravimetrically adding Lead AA standards to
a buffered solution at know concentrations. The concentrations are then
confirmed by Graphite Furnace Atomic Absorption method.
Value assignment is determined based upon replicate assays of representative
samples of control on multiple instruments and lots of measurement kits.
Stability:
Real time stabilities studies have been conducted. Protocols and acceptance
criteria were described and found to be acceptable. The stability is listed
below:
Open vial stability is 2 months at 2 to 8ºC
Closed vial stability is 18 months at 15 to 27ºC
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The assayed value range for each control is provided on the vial label. The target
value ranges are expected to be within the following: level 1 6.0-10.0 µg/dL; level
II 22.0 to 28.0 µg/dL.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5