
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 7
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K063099
B. Purpose for Submission:
To add the option for automated reading of Cefepime at 0.015 – 8 µg/mL
to the MICroSTREP plus® Panel on the MicroScan® WalkAway System
C. Measurand:
Cefepime at 0.015 – 8 µg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative and Qualitative growth based detection algorithm using optics light
detection
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc,
MicroScan®
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MicroScan® MICroSTREP plus® Panel – Cefepime at 0.015 – 8 µg/mL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1640 – Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LRG – Instrument for Auto Reader & Interpretation of Overnight
Antimicrobial Susceptibility System
LTT – Panels, Test, Susceptibility, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cefepime at 0.015 – 8 µg/mL is for use with MICroSTREP plus® Panels.
MICroSTREP plus® Panels are designed for use in determining quantitative

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
and/or qualitative antimicrobial agent susceptibility of colonies grown on
solid media of aerobic streptococci, including Streptococcus pneumoniae.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This submission is for adding the option for automated reading of the
Cefepime at concentrations of 0.015 – 8 µg/mL to MICroSTREP plus®
Panels on the MicroScan® WalkAway System for testing Streptococcus
pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, and viridans
group streptococci.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
Turbidity method of inoculum preparation only
The absence of resistant strains of beta hemolytic streptococci precludes
defining any results categories other than “susceptible”. For isolates yielding
results suggestive of a “nonsusceptible” category, organism identification and
antimicrobial susceptibility results should be confirmed.
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The MicroScan® MICroSTREP plus® Panel is a 96-well plastic dish which contains
microdilutions of each antimicrobic in various concentrations dried in aqueous
solutions. The panel is rehydrated and inoculated at the same time with a Mueller-
Hinton broth supplemented with lysed horse blood (2 – 5%). The target inoculum
concentration for each well should be approximately 5 x 105 colony forming units
(CFU)/mL. Panels are incubated in a 35° C non-CO incubator for 20-24 hours. After
2
incubation, the panels are read manually for growth. Additionally, panels may be
incubated in and read by a MicroScan® WalkAway instrument. Each panel contains
a “growth” but it does not contain a “no growth” control well.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
MICroSTREP plus®
2. Predicate K number(s):
K021188
3. Comparison with predicate:

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Determination of susceptibility to Same
antimicrobics with aerobic
streptococci including
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Isolates For use with aerobic streptococci Same
including Streptococcus
pneumoniae isolated colonies from
culture
Results Quantitative with qualitative Same
interpretations
Incubation 20 – 24 hours Same
Panels Cefepime dried in aqueous Same
solution
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology Growth based using Growth based
algorithm with optics light
detection
Reading Overnight method Overnight method
Manual or automated Manual read only
Instrument MicroScan® WalkAway Microdilution viewer
System or Microdilution
viewer
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods
for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The antimicrobial susceptibility tests are miniaturizations of the broth dilution
susceptibility test that have been diluted in water and dehydrated. Various
antimicrobial agents are diluted in water, buffer or minute concentrations of broth to
concentrations bridging the range of clinical interest. Panels are rehydrated with 115 µL
Mueller-Hinton broth supplemented with 2-5% lysed horse blood (LHB), after
inoculation of the broth with a standardized suspension of the organism. The target
inoculum concentration for each well should be approximately 5 x 105 colony forming
units (CFU)/mL. After incubation in a non-CO incubator for 20-24 hours, the
2
minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for the test organisms is determined by
observing the lowest antimicrobial concentration showing inhibition of growth. Panels
can be read manually using indirect light or the panels can be read on the MicroScan®
WalkAway instrument using optics light detection.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities													
	Item			Device								Predicate	
Intended use			Determination of susceptibility to
antimicrobics with aerobic
streptococci including
Streptococcus pneumoniae								Same		
Isolates			For use with aerobic streptococci
including Streptococcus
pneumoniae isolated colonies from
culture								Same		
Results			Quantitative with qualitative
interpretations								Same		
Incubation			20 – 24 hours								Same		
Panels			Cefepime dried in aqueous
solution								Same		
Differences													
	Item						Device			Predicate			
Technology						Growth based using
algorithm with optics light
detection			Growth based				
Reading						Overnight method
Manual or automated			Overnight method
Manual read only				
Instrument						MicroScan® WalkAway
System or Microdilution
viewer			Microdilution viewer				

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
This submission is for the AST Panel only. The ID System was not reviewed.
The Reproducibility studies, QC performance data, and Challenge isolates evaluated
by the manual and automated reading methods are required to demonstrate that there
is no difference between manual reading and automated reading in the MicroScan®
WalkAway System.
The clinical efficacy performance was previously established using the manual read
method and was therefore not required for this submission.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was demonstrated using 10 isolates tested at 4 sites
on 3 separate days in triplicate, for a total of 360 results. The study
included testing on the MicroScan® WalkAway System with
automated reading at 20-24 hours, and manual readings at 20-24
hours incubation.
Both reading methods demonstrated >95% reproducibility, and no
differences were observed.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or method):
The recommended QC isolate S. pneumoniae ATCC 49619 was
tested a sufficient number of times with acceptable results on all
testing days with the reference method.
Quality control results demonstrated the ability of the different
reading parameters (manual and instrument) to produce acceptable
results on >95% of the testing days.
The following table provides the frequency of results in each
concentration with the expected range stated.
Both reading methods produced the same mode, which was slightly
more resistant than the mode for the reference method, if only by one
dilution.

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
Organism Concentration Reference MicroScan®
µg/mL results WalkAway
results
Manual Instrument
Overnight Overnight
S. pneumoniae ≤ 0.015
ATCC 49619 0.03 1 2
Expected range 0.06 78 15 24
0.03— 0.25 0.12 5 70 62
µg/mL 0.25 3
0.5 1
1
Inoculum density control: A turbidity meter, which was verified
each day of testing, was used for the turbidity inoculation method.
Colony counts were performed weekly, on the ATCC S. pneumoniae
with all results in the expected range of approximately 5 x 105.
No trending was observed.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical efficacy testing with manual result reading was conducted in
the previous submission (K021188). In this submission, Challenge
isolates were evaluated by the manual and automated reading methods
to demonstrate that there is no difference between manual reading and
instrument reading on the MicroScan® WalkAway System. There
were 70 challenge isolates including 53 Streptococcus pneumoniae
CDC Challenge Set strains, tested at one internal site and compared to
the reference broth dilution result, which was obtained prior to the
design validation. A comparison was done with readings on the
instrument after 20 hours incubation, and also read manually when
incubated for 20-24 hours. Performance by the automated reading
method was acceptable with no differences or trends.
The recommended CLSI reference method was followed with the
exception of the use of a small amount (0.1%) of Pluronic (a wetting
agent) in the final inoculum. A validation of the use of Pluronic in the

[Table 1 on page 5]
Organism	Concentration
µg/mL	Reference
results	MicroScan®
WalkAway
results	
			Manual
Overnight	Instrument
Overnight
S. pneumoniae
ATCC 49619
Expected range
0.03— 0.25
µg/mL	≤ 0.015			
	0.03		1	2
	0.06	78	15	24
	0.12	5	70	62
	0.25		3	
	0.5			1
	1			

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
frozen reference panel was conducted. QC was also performed with
no difference apparent in the results.
Read method comparison of Streptococcus species and Cefepime
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA Tot EA N EA %
Challenge
Manual 70 66 94.3 60 57 95.0 2 11 0 0
Challenge
Automated 70 67 95.7 60 58 96.7 2 10 0 0
EA-Essential Agreement maj-major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates vmj-very major discrepancies
min- minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the Microscan®
MICroSTREP plus® panels agree with the reference test
panel results exactly or within one doubling dilution of the
reference method. Evaluable (Eval) are results that are
within the test range and on scale.
Automated reading results were the same as the manual reading results
with no trending. There were no vmj, no maj, and there was 1
additional minor error generated only by the manual reading method.
The overall EA% of 94.3% and Eval EA% of 95.0% for the manual
read and overall EA% of 95.6% and Eval EA% of 96.7% for the
automated reading were both very good.
The test device had a growth rate of >95% for both the manual reading
and the automated reading methods.
The comparison of the reading methods demonstrates that the manual
reading method and the automated reading on the MicroScan®
WalkAway System are no different. The efficacy data performed with
the manual reading method would therefore be expected to have no
differences.
The performance data currently documented in the package insert
will not change.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 6]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	#R	min	maj	vmj
Challenge
Manual	70	66	94.3	60	57	95.0	2	11	0	0
Challenge
Automated	70	67	95.7	60	58	96.7	2	10	0	0

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Interpretive criteria
Cefepime S I R
Streptococcus pneumoniae ≤ 1 2 ≥ 4
Beta hemolytic streptococci ≤ 0.5 --- ---
group*
Viridans streptococci group
≤ 1 2 ≥ 4
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC as recommended
by CLSI are included in the package insert.
*The absence of resistant strains of beta hemolytic streptococci precludes
defining any results categories other than “susceptible”. For isolates
yielding results suggestive of a “nonsusceptible” category, organism
identification and antimicrobial susceptibility results should be
confirmed.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 7]
Cefepime	S	I	R
Streptococcus pneumoniae	≤ 1	2	≥ 4
Beta hemolytic streptococci
group*	≤ 0.5	---	---
Viridans streptococci group	≤ 1	2	≥ 4