
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063855
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for glucose
D. Type of Test:
N/A
E. Applicant:
Liberty Healthcare Group, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liberty Control Solutions (Normal Level and High Level)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJX, single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use (i.e. for external use only) by healthcare professional
and in the home by people with diabetes mellitus to assess the performance of the
Liberty Blood Glucose Monitoring System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See intended use section above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-The-Counter Use
3. Special instrument requirements:
Liberty Blood Glucose Monitoring System
1

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
The Liberty Control Solutions are liquid glucose control solutions for use with the
Liberty Blood Glucose Monitors. Each control consists of a buffered aqueous
solution of D-Glucose, a viscosity modifier, preservatives, red dye, and other non-
reactive ingredients. The device is non-sterile, over-the counter product and is
intended for external use only. It is non-hazardous and contains no human or animal
derived materials.
The product is packaged in a plastic dropper tipped bottle for easy application of the
control solution to the test strip and contains sufficient volume (3.6 mL) to run 75
tests. A red coloration is included to aid the user to visually confirm application of
the control.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AgaMatrix Liberty Control Solution
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k052762
3. Comparison with predicate:
Both devices contain D-Glucose and is non-hazardous and contains no human or
animal derived materials.
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Indications for Used to check the Used with the Liberty Meter and
Use performance of Liberty Test Strips as a quality control
Blood Glucose Monitoring check to verify the accuracy of
System. blood glucose test results.
Target Population Professional and home use Professional and home use
Matrix Buffered Aqueous Solution Buffered Aqueous Solution
Container Plastic bottle with dropper- Plastic bottle with dropper-tip
tip
Analytes Glucose Glucose
Number of Levels 2 2
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A, Evaluation of the Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for
Use			Used to check the
performance of Liberty
Blood Glucose Monitoring
System.			Used with the Liberty Meter and
Test Strips as a quality control
check to verify the accuracy of
blood glucose test results.		
Target Population			Professional and home use			Professional and home use		
Matrix			Buffered Aqueous Solution			Buffered Aqueous Solution		
Container			Plastic bottle with dropper-
tip			Plastic bottle with dropper-tip		
Analytes			Glucose			Glucose		
Number of Levels			2			2		

--- Page 3 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The D-Glucose used in this control is traceable to an in-house glucose
preparation. Values are assigned by repeat analysis using three different lots
of test strips. The mean and standard deviation are used to establish the
acceptable range for each control level.
Stability characteristics of the Liberty Glucose Control MID were determined
using real-time studies. The unopened shelf-life is 24 months and the open
vial stability is 90 days at the recommended storage of 36 °F to 86 °F.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive da ta (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4