
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063608
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
New calibrator
New control
C. Measurand:
Apolipoprotein A-I (APOAI)
Apolipoprotein B (APO B)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative immunoassay, nephelometric
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ APOAI Flex® reagent cartridge
Dimension Vista™ APOB Flex® reagent cartridge
Dimension Vista™ Apolipoprotein calibrator (APO CAL)
Dimension Vista™ Apolipoprotein control (APO CON)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1475, Lipoprotein test system
21 CFR 862.1150, Calibrator
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Respectively:
Class I, meets the limitations to the exemption 21 CFR 862.9(c)(4)
Class II
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
MSJ, JIT, JJY
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Dimension Vista APOAI Flex reagent cartridge :
The method is an in vitro diagnostic test for the quantitative determination of
apolipoprotein A-I in human serum, heparinized plasma, or EDTA plasma on the
Dimension Vista system. Measurements of apolipoprotein A-I aid in the
diagnosis and treatment of lipid disorders, various liver and renal diseases, and in
the assessment of risk for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.
Dimension Vista APOB Flex reagent cartridge :
The method is an in vitro diagnostic test for the quantitative determination of
apolipoprotein B in human serum, heparinized plasma, or EDTA plasma on the
Dimension Vista system. Measurements of apolipoprotein B aid in the diagnosis
and treatment of lipid disorders, various liver and renal diseases, and in the
assessment of risk for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.
Dimension Vista Apolipoprotein Calibrator:
Apolipoprotein Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of
apolipoprotein A-I (APOAI) and apolipoprotein B (APOB) on the Dimension
Vista system.
Dimension Vista Apolipoprotein Control:
Apolipoprotein Control is an in vitro diagnostic product for the assessment of
precision and analytical bias of apolipoprotein A-I (APOAI) and apolipoprotein B
(APOB) on the Dimension Vista system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Behring Dimension Vista system
I. Device Description:
The Dimension Vista APOAI Flex and APOB Flex reagent cartridges each consist of
12 reagent wells. Wells 1-4 contain either APOAI or APOB supplement reagent.
Wells 11 and 12 contain rabbit antiserum specific to either apolipoprotein A-I or
apolipoprotein B. The remaining wells 5-10 are used for patient sample dilution and
mixing.
The Dimension Vista Apolipoprotein calibrator is a lyophilized, human serum based
product containing apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein B. It is packaged in 4 vials.
Before use, the contents should be reconstituted with 1.0 mL of distilled water. The
2

--- Page 3 ---
analyzer automatically dilutes the calibrator with System Diluent to achieve
concentrations spanning the assay range.
The Dimension Vista Apolipoprotein control is a lyophilized, human serum based
product containing apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein B. It is packaged in 4 vials.
Before use, the contents should be reconstituted with 1.0 mL of distilled water.
The sponsor indicates that human source materials were tested and found to be
negative for Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 1 and 2, Hepatitis B virus (HBV)
and Hepatitis C virus (HCV). The tests were either FDA approved methods or
methods found to be in conformance with the IVD Directive in the European Union.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring N Antisera to Human Apolipoprotein A-I and Apolipoprotein B
Dade Behring N Apolipoprotein Standard Serum
Dade Behring Apolipoprotein Control Serum CHD
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k860894, k041870, k993310
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Dimension Vista
APOAI and APO B Flex
Reagent Cartridges:
Assay method Nephelometric Nephelometric
immunoassay immunoassay
Assay antibody Rabbit Rabbit
Dimension Vista APO
CAL and APO CON:
Calibrator composition Lyophilized human Lyophilized human
serum containing serum containing
apolipoprotein A-1 and apolipoprotein A-1 and
apolipoprotein B apolipoprotein B
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Dimension Vista
APOAI and APO B Flex
Reagent Cartridges:
Assay method
Assay antibody
Dimension Vista APO
CAL and APO CON:
Calibrator composition			Nephelometric
immunoassay
Rabbit
Lyophilized human
serum containing
apolipoprotein A-1 and
apolipoprotein B			Nephelometric
immunoassay
Rabbit
Lyophilized human
serum containing
apolipoprotein A-1 and
apolipoprotein B		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Control composition Lyophilized human Lyophilized human
serum containing serum containing
apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein A-I and
apolipoprotein B apolipoprotein B
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Dimension Vista
APOAI and APO B Flex
Reagent Cartridges:
Test System Dimension Vista BN systems
Sample type Serum, lithium or sodium Serum only
heparin plasma, EDTA
plasma
Reportable Range 19-600 mg/dL Not specified, dependent
APOAI on protein concentration
of standard
APO B 26-400 mg/dL Not specified, dependent
on protein concentration
of standard
Dimension Vista APO
CAL:
Traceability APOAI BCR-393 IRP SP1-01
Traceability APOB IRP SP3-07 IRP SP3-07
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
-Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guideline- Second Edition (CLSI EP5-A)
-Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline (CLSI EP7-A2)
-Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved Guideline
Second Edition (CLSI EP9-A2)
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Control composition			Lyophilized human
serum containing
apolipoprotein A-I and
apolipoprotein B			Lyophilized human
serum containing
apolipoprotein A-I and
apolipoprotein B		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Dimension Vista
APOAI and APO B Flex
Reagent Cartridges:
Test System
Sample type
Reportable Range
APOAI
APO B
Dimension Vista APO
CAL:
Traceability APOAI
Traceability APOB			Dimension Vista
Serum, lithium or sodium
heparin plasma, EDTA
plasma
19-600 mg/dL
26-400 mg/dL
BCR-393
IRP SP3-07			BN systems
Serum only
Not specified, dependent
on protein concentration
of standard
Not specified, dependent
on protein concentration
of standard
IRP SP1-01
IRP SP3-07		

--- Page 5 ---
L. Test Principle:
Apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein B in the serum or plasma sample form immune
complexes in an immunochemical reaction with protein specific antibodies. These
complexes scatter a beam of light as it passes through the sample. The intensity of the
scattered light is proportional to the concentration of the respective protein in the sample.
The result is evaluated by comparison with a standard of known concentration.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision study was performed over a period of 20 days following the
protocol outlined in CLSI EP5-A2.
For the APOAI assay, sample material included the Dade Behring Vista
Apolipoprotein control (168 mg/dL), two serum pools (48 and 508 mg/dL)
and two lithium heparin plasma pools (103 and 227 mg/dL). Repeatability
ranged from 2.0-4.4% CV and within lab imprecision ranged from 2.8-4.9%
CV.
For the APOB assay, sample material included the Dade Behring Vista
Apolipoprotein control (96 mg/dL), three serum pools (43, 52, and 370
mg/dL) and two lithium heparin plasma pools (98 and 146 mg/dL).
Repeatability ranged from 1.4-6.4% CV and within lab imprecision ranged
from 2.6-7.2% CV.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The reportable range of the APOAI assay is 19-600 mg/dL.
The reportable range of the APOB assay is 26-400 mg/dL.
Linearity was evaluated by comparing the observed versus expected values
obtained with the Dimension Vista APOAI and APO B methods. Natural
serum samples with high concentration of APOAI and APOB were mixed
with System Diluent in twelve (12) different proportions across the range of
the assay. For the APOAI method, when observed results were compared to
expected results, recovery ranged from 92-111%. For the APOB method,
recovery ranged from 95-103%.
High dose hook effect was evaluated by testing sera with elevated APOAI or
APOB. No hook effect was observed with samples up 829 mg/dL and 967
mg/dL respectively.
Samples above assay range are reported by the analyzer as >600 mg/dL
(APOAI) or >400 mg/dL (APOB). These samples are automatically diluted
5

--- Page 6 ---
1:100 with System Diluent on board the analyzer.
Samples below the assay range are reported as <19 mg/dL (APOAI) or <26
mg/dL (APOB).
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Calibrators and controls are required with this assay and are specifically
identified in the labeling. They are both provided separately, and are
obtaining clearance with this submission. See the device description section,
above.
Traceability and Value Assignment:
Dimension Vista Apolipoprotein Calibrator (APO CAL) and Apolipoprotein
Control (APO CON) are traceable to protein reference material BCR-393
(APOAI) and IRP SP3-07 (APOB).
The value assignment process is as follows. Master Calibrators are prepared
internally and values are assigned from protein reference materials BCR-393
and IRP SP3-07. The Master Calibrators are tested with along with the new
lot of APO CAL or APO CON on mulitple analyzers and multiple assay runs.
Stability:
The real time and accelerated stability study protocols were reviewed for APO
CAL and APO CON and found to be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
The sponsor’s labeling states the lower limit of the reportable range to be 19
mg/dL (APOAI) and 26 mg/dL (APOB) which were previously established in
k860894 and validated for use on the Vista. In addition, limit of blank studies
were performed and the results were well below the lower limit stated.
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference testing was performed according to CLSI EP7-A2, to determine
the effect of various endogenous and exogenous substances on the assay.
Hemoglobin hemolysate (up to 1000 mg/dL), conjugated and unconjugated
bilirubin (up to 60 mg/dL), and a panel of commonly ingested substances,
over-the-counter drugs and prescription drugs did not interfere with the assay.
A list of these substances can be found in the package insert. The sponsor
defined interference as a difference in recovery between the test sample and
control sample greater than 10%.
The effect of rheumatoid factor (RF) was evaluated by testing mixtures of
serum samples with known elevated RF and samples with low RF. The
APOAI and APOB concentrations were determined for each sample in
replicates of five on the Dimension Vista System. For each sample
preparation, the percent recovery was calculated by comparing the measured
6

--- Page 7 ---
result to the expected result. The sponsor defined interference as a difference
in recovery between the actual and expected values of greater than 10%.
Levels of RF up to 1400 IU/mL did not interfere.
The effect of interference by elevated total protein was determined by testing
the total protein and APOAI and APOB concentrations in a neat sample. The
neat sample was then spiked with additional protein. For each sample
preparation, the percent recovery was calculated by comparing the measured
result to the initial result. The sponsor defined interference as a difference in
recovery between the actual and initial values of greater than 10%. Levels of
total protein up to 13.8 g/dL did not interfere.
The sponsor states in the labeling under “Limitations of Procedure” that the
effect of elevated triglycerides and chylomicrons was not evaluated.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Serum samples were tested in singleton on the Dimension Vista APOAI and
APOB methods and the Dade Behring BN ProSpec test system. The method
used to fit the linear regression line was Passing Bablok.
Comparative Method n Slope Intercept Correlation
Coefficient
APOAI 72 1.007 -0.038 0.997
APOB 77 1.011 -0.004 0.995
b. Matrix comparison:
The sponsor demonstrated equivalence between serum and EDTA, lithium
heparin, and sodium heparin plasmas by conducting the following study.
Ten matched serum and plasma sets with APOAI and APOB values spanning
the assay range were tested on the Dimension Vista APOAI and APOB
methods and the results compared. All plasma samples tested recovered
within ± 5% of its matched serum sample.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Comparative Method	n	Slope	Intercept		Correlation	
					Coefficient	
APOAI	72	1.007	-0.038	0.997		
APOB	77	1.011	-0.004	0.995		

--- Page 8 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values are based on literature.
Apo AI women 125 – 215 mg/dL [1.25 - 2.15 g/L]
men 110 – 205 mg/dL [1.10 - 2.05 g/L]
Apo B women 55 – 125 mg/dL [0.55 - 1.25 g/L]
men 55 – 140 mg/dL [0.55 - 1.40 g/L]
Apo B/Apo A-I women 0.30 - 0.90
men 0.35 - 1.00
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8