
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K063218
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Nucleated Red Blood Cells (nRBC)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Streck, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
e-CHECK (XE)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology quality control mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GLQ, Mixture, Control, White Blood and Red-Cell Indices
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
e-CHECK (XE)™ is intended to be used as a control for complete blood cell
count (CBC), white blood cell differential, reticulocyte and nucleated red blood
cell (NRBC) parameters on Sysmex XE – series instruments.
2. Indication(s) for use:
e-CHECK (XE)™ is intended to be used as a control for complete blood cell
count (CBC), white blood cell differential, reticulocyte and nucleated red blood
cell (NRBC) parameters on Sysmex XE – series instruments.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
e-CHECK (XE)™ is to be used on Sysmex XE – series instruments.
I. Device Description:
e-CHECK (XE) is a suspension of stabilized human and animal blood packaged in
glass vials, containing 4.6 mL volumes. Closures are injected molded polypropylene
screw top caps. This device consists of three levels: Low CBC/High Retic (Low
Level), Normal CBC/Intermediate Retic (Normal Level), and High CBC/Low Retic
(High Level). The vials are packaged in a welled vacuum form clam-shell container
with the package insert and assay sheet.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
e-CHECK, Streck, Inc.
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K994388
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
e-CHECK (XE) e-CHECK
Intended Use e-CHECK (XE)™ is intended e-CHECK is intended to be
to be used as a control for used as a control for complete
complete blood cell count blood cell count (CBC), white
(CBC), white blood cell cell 5-part differential, and
differential, reticulocyte and reticulocyte parameters on
nucleated red blood cell Sysmex XE – 2100
(NRBC) parameters on hematology instrument.
Sysmex XE – series
instruments.
Contents Stabilized human red blood Stabilized human red blood
cells, human white cells, and cells, human white cells, and
simulated platelets with the simulated platelets.
addition of simulated human
nucleated red blood cells
(NRBCs).
Evaluation parameters Complete blood cell count Complete blood cell count
(CBC), white blood cell (CBC), white blood cell
differential, reticulocyte, and differential and reticulocyte.
nucleated red blood cell
(NRBC).
Open Vial Stability 7 day 7 day
Storage Temperature 2 – 8˚C 2 – 8˚C
Differences
Device Predicate
Closed Vial Stability 84 day 73 day
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
H38-P Calibration and Quality Control of Automated Hematology Analyzers;
Proposed Standard, 1999, NCCLS
L. Test Principle:
Laboratories require assayed material for quality control of automated, semi-
automated and manual procedures that measure whole blood parameters. Daily use of
this whole blood control provides quality control data for confirming the precision
and accurate of instrument operations.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			e-CHECK (XE)			e-CHECK		
Intended Use			e-CHECK (XE)™ is intended
to be used as a control for
complete blood cell count
(CBC), white blood cell
differential, reticulocyte and
nucleated red blood cell
(NRBC) parameters on
Sysmex XE – series
instruments.			e-CHECK is intended to be
used as a control for complete
blood cell count (CBC), white
cell 5-part differential, and
reticulocyte parameters on
Sysmex XE – 2100
hematology instrument.		
Contents			Stabilized human red blood
cells, human white cells, and
simulated platelets with the
addition of simulated human
nucleated red blood cells
(NRBCs).			Stabilized human red blood
cells, human white cells, and
simulated platelets.		
Evaluation parameters			Complete blood cell count
(CBC), white blood cell
differential, reticulocyte, and
nucleated red blood cell
(NRBC).			Complete blood cell count
(CBC), white blood cell
differential and reticulocyte.		
Open Vial Stability			7 day			7 day		
Storage Temperature			2 – 8˚C			2 – 8˚C		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
				Device			Predicate	
								
Closed Vial Stability			84 day			73 day		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility and comparison to whole blood was performed on three lots
of each level of e-CHECK and two whole blood samples using the Sysmex
XE – 2100 hematology analyzer. Each value was calculated from 10
consecutive analyses performed on a single vial of product. Reproducibility is
expressed as a CV%. All calculations were performed using Microsoft Excel
spreadsheet statistical functions.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Open vial stability was assessed by the analysis of both room temperature
and refrigerated (2-8oC) samples of three lots, at least 3 runs per level a day
through a 7 day open vial period. All lots performed as expected, with
parameter within the established assay ranges.
Closed vial stability was assessed by performing analysis of one vial per
level from each of three lots once at least one time per month throughout the
84 day expiration dating. No significant trends occurred and there was a
consistent recovery of values within the indicated assay range.
Parameter value assignments:
The e-CHECK value assignment is based on instrument specific requirements.
Replicate analyses on multiple vials are performed on the analyzer application
– Sysmex XE Series analyzers. Assay analysis is performed using two vials,
testing each vial a minimum of five times. This ten-run reproducibility event
is analyzed to assure that the mean values and CV% meet instrument specific
requirements. The data is forwarded to Sysmex for further analysis. Final
assay assignment values are determined using the data collected, parity
comparisons and established product performance characteristics. Expected
range values assigned to the assay are based on the standard deviation of the
assay data and established product performance characteristics.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Assay means provided by the accompanying assay data sheet are not intended for
use as analyzer quality control (QC) file target values. It is recommended that
laboratories establish their own QC target values for each new lot number.
Assay expected ranges represent variation between analyzers and are not to be
used as QC file limits. Each laboratory should establish control limits based on
its analyzer’s normal CV.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Suggested QC Limits are available from Sysmex for new users to ensure stable
performance until a laboratory’s own control limits can be set.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6