
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063573
B. Purpose for Submission:
To remove limitation for Citrobacter freundii and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia on
the BD Phoenix™ gram-negative ID/AST or AST only Phoenix panels
C. Measurand:
Ceftazidime 0.5 – 64 μg/mL
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) colorimetric oxidation-reduction, growth-
based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Ceftazidime 0.5 – 64 μg/mL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle Antimicrobial
Susceptibility System
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Ceftazidime at concentrations of 0.5 – 64 μg/mL on the Gram Negative (GN)
ID/AST or AST only Phoenix panels is intended for use with the BD Phoenix™
Automated Microbiology System for in vitro quantitative determination of
antimicrobial susceptibility by minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most

--- Page 2 ---
Gram-negative aerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria isolates from pure
culture for Enterobacteriaceae and non – Enterobacteriaceae and most Gram-
positive bacteria isolates from pure culture belonging to the genera
Staphylococcus, Enterococcus, and Streptococcus.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This application is indicated for ceftazidime with the removal of the limitations
for Citrobacter freundii and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
This submission is for AST Panel only. The ID System was not reviewed.
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for ID and AST
Indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and
equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™
Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST broth, which contains an AST
indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-adjusted formulation
of Mueller-Hinton broth containing 0.01% Tween 80. After adding the indicator solution
to the AST inoculum the color is blue and after inoculation and incubation changes to
pink then to colorless as reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated panels are
barcode scanned and loaded into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System
instrument where the panels are continuously incubated at 350C. The AST has a final
inoculum of 5 x 105 CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and records the results of
the biochemical substrates and antimicrobial agents and interprets the reactions to give an
ID of the isolate and MIC value and category interpretation of the antimicrobial agents.
Organisms growing in the presence of a given antimicrobic agent reduce the indicator,
signaling organism growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent. Organisms killed or
inhibited by a given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the indicator and therefore do
not produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done using software driven
“EXPERT” System using rules derived from the CLSI documentation.
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an AST result available between 4-16 hours.
This is only an autoread result; no manual readings are possible with this system.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
N50510
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
1. Intended Use Intended for the in vitro Same
rapid identification (ID)
and quantitative
determination of
antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.
2. Isolates Isolated colonies from Isolated colonies from
culture used culture used
3. Result Reported Report results as Report results as
minimum inhibitory minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation categorical interpretation
(SIR) (SIR)
4. Incubation Time <16 hours <16 hours
5. Type of Test Automated Automated
Differences
Item Device Predicate
1. Results achieved Results are determined Results are determined
from serial twofold from extrapolation of
dilutions of antimicrobial doubling dilutions
agents
2. Sample Preparation Inoculum density equated Inoculum density
to 0.5 McFarland equated to 1.0 McFarland
standard standard
3. Technology Automated growth based Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a with detection using an
redox indicator attenuation of light
(colorimetric oxidation- measured by an optical
reduction) to detect scanner.
organism growth.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S16) “Methods for
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
1. Intended Use			Intended for the in vitro
rapid identification (ID)
and quantitative
determination of
antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.			Same		
2. Isolates			Isolated colonies from
culture used			Isolated colonies from
culture used		
3. Result Reported			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and
categorical interpretation
(SIR)		
4. Incubation Time			<16 hours			<16 hours		
5. Type of Test			Automated			Automated		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
1. Results achieved			Results are determined
from serial twofold
dilutions of antimicrobial
agents			Results are determined
from extrapolation of
doubling dilutions		
2. Sample Preparation			Inoculum density equated
to 0.5 McFarland
standard			Inoculum density
equated to 1.0 McFarland
standard		
3. Technology			Automated growth based
enhanced by use of a
redox indicator
(colorimetric oxidation-
reduction) to detect
organism growth.			Automated growth based
with detection using an
attenuation of light
measured by an optical
scanner.		

--- Page 4 ---
Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically;
Approved Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The AST portion of the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is a broth
based microdilution method that utilizes a redox indicator (colorimetric oxidation-
reduction) to enhance detection of organism growth. The MIC is determined by
comparing growth in wells containing serial two-fold dilutions of an antibiotic to the
growth in “growth control wells” which contains no antibiotic.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
The data included in this submission were acquired during the clinical studies
performed at multiple sites. The accuracy performance data for limitation
removal for clinical and challenge isolates are contained in this submission. The
Reproducibility study was performed in the previous submission (k033560) and
was not performed for this submission because the drug formulation has not
changed. The QC performance was within the expected ranges as shown under
the “Traceabality, Stability… section (c).”
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intersite and Intrasite testing demonstrated >95% reproducibility. The ten
isolate study described in the guidance document was used (10 organisms
tested 3 times on 3 days at 3 sites).
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Quality Control was performed on every test occasion with the following
results. BD Phoenix™ produced acceptable QC results as compared to the
reference method results >95% of the time. An additional QC organism was
tested to provide additional on scale results.
Ceftazidime QC Table
conc. BD Phoenix™
ORGANISM (μg/mL) Reference
E. coli ≤0.5 52 83
ATCC 25922 1 1
Expected Range: ≤0.5 μg/mL
P. aeruginosa 1 19 3
ATCC 27853 2 31 73
Expected Range: 4 5
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
ORGANISM	conc.
(μg/mL)	Reference		BD Phoenix™		
						
E. coli
ATCC 25922
Expected Range: ≤0.5 μg/mL	≤0.5		52		83	
	1		1			
						
						
P. aeruginosa
ATCC 27853
Expected Range:	1		19		3	
	2		31		73	
	4				5	

--- Page 5 ---
1 - 4 μg/mL 8
16 1
2 53 78
P. aeruginosa 4
ATCC 35032 8 1
Expected Range: 16 1
1 - 4 μg/mL 32 1
Inoculum density control: The organism suspension density of the ID
broth was equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard using the BBL™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of testing.
Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the BBL™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible results.
Five different instruments were used.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The broth dilution reference panel was prepared according to the CLSI
recommendation and was used to compare with the BD Phoenix™ results.
Clinical testing was performed at several sites. The testing included both
fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates along with a challenge set with known
results. The additional trial included majority of Citrobacter freundii isolates
and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates with acceptable performance. An
additional clinical isolates of several report groups cleared in a previous
submission were also tested to demonstrate that performance of these report
groups did not change. The test device had a growth rate of >90%. The
performance chart below includes combined data from the original and the
additional trial results to remove limitation for Citrobacter freundii and
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia.
GN Accuracy Summary Overall Clinical and Challenge from Original Trial combined
with Clinical and Challenge from Additional Trial
EA EA EA Eval Eval Eval CA CA % #R min maj vmj
Tot N % EA EA N EA % N
Tot
Combined 2388 2306 96.6 682 613 89.9 2262 94.7 515 102 15 9
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
1 - 4 μg/mL	8					
	16		1			
						
P. aeruginosa
ATCC 35032
Expected Range:
1 - 4 μg/mL	2		53		78	
	4					
	8				1	
	16				1	
	32				1	
						

[Table 2 on page 5]
	EA
Tot	EA
N	EA
%	Eval
EA
Tot	Eval
EA N	Eval
EA %	CA
N	CA %	#R	min	maj	vmj
Combined	2388	2306	96.6	682	613	89.9	2262	94.7	515	102	15	9

--- Page 6 ---
EA-Essential Agreement vmj – very major discrepancies
CA-Category Agreement maj - major discrepancies
R-resistant isolates min – minor discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panels agree with the
reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling dilution of the reference
method. Category agreement (CA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panel result
interpretation (SIR) agrees exactly with the reference panel result interpretation.
Evaluable EA is when the MIC result is on scale for both the BD Phoenix™ and the
reference and have on-scale EA.
A slight trend is observed in the clinical trials where the BD Phoenix™ appears to be
more susceptible than the reference method. Very major, major, and minor error rates
are all acceptable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Enterobacteriaceae ≤8(S); 16(I); ≥32(R)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa ≤8(S); 16(I); ≥32(R)
Other Non – Enterobacteriaceae ≤8(S); 16(I); ≥32(R)
N. Proposed Labeling:
The expected value range, interpretive criteria and QC for gram negative panels are
included in the package insert. The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the
requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6