
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063024
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of new device
C. Measurand:
Amphetamine
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative Enzyme Immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Lin-Zhi International, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LZI Oral Fluid Amphetamine-Specific Enzyme Immunoassay
LZI Oral Fluid Amphetamine Metabolite Calibrators
LZI Oral Fluid Amphetamine Metabolite Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.3100, Amphetamine test system
§862.3200, Clinical toxicology calibrator
§862.3280, Clinical toxicology control material
2. Classification:
Class II (test system, calibrator)
Class I, reserved (control material)
3. Product code:
DKZ, enzyme immunoassay, amphetamine
DLJ, calibrators, drug specific
LAS, drug specific control materials
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Amphetamine-Specific Enzyme Immunoassays for Drugs of Abuse in Oral
Fluid is a homogeneous enzyme immunoassay system to detect amphetamine in
human saliva with a cutoff of 45 ng/mL when testing oral fluid specimen
collected with Salivette collector (manufactured by Sarstedt) and diluted with 1
mL of buffer. The calibrators and controls of the analyte (d-amphetamine) are
prepared with oral fluid buffer so that it can be used to verify and validate the
assay. The assay is intended for use in the qualitative determination for
amphetamine. The assay is designed for professional use with a number of
automated clinical chemistry analyzers.
The Oral Fluid Amphetamine-Specific Enzyme Immunoassay is a homogeneous
enzyme immunoassay system provides only a preliminary analytical test result. A
more specific alternative chemical method must be used to obtain a confirmed
analytical result. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) is the
preferred confirmatory method. Clinical consideration and professional
judgement should be applied to any drug-of-abuse test result, particularly when
preliminary positive results are used.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription, professional use only in clinical chemistry laboratories.
The assay is not designated for use in point-of-care settings.
4. Special instrument requirements:
The assay is designed for professional use with a number of clinical chemistry
analyzers. Performance data submitted was obtained using the Hitachi 717
analyzer.
I. Device Description:
The assay consists of ready-to-use liquid reagents. Reagent 1 contains mouse
2

--- Page 3 ---
monoclonal antibody to amphetamine, glucose-6-phosphate (G6P), nicotinamide
adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and stabilizers. Reagent 2 contains amphetamine labeled
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) in buffer.
The calibrator standards are sold separately. They are used to construct the standard
curve used to calculate the concentration of the unknown samples as well as to
qualitatively determine the presences or absences of amphetamine in the sample.
They consist of 3 levels of a buffer matrix spiked with known concentrations of the
drug analyte, ranging in concentration from 0-90 µg/mL.
Assayed controls are sold separately and are run with the samples to monitor the
performance of the assay. They consist of oral fluid with amphetamine added.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
LZI Oral Fluid Cocaine Enzyme Immunoassay, LZI Opiate Oral Fluid Enzyme
Immunoassay and LZI Oral Fluid Methadone Enzyme Immunoassay
OraSure Amphetamine-Specific Intercept Micro-plate oral fluid EIA
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k050945
k050988
k051058
k992918
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Qualitative detection of
Same
amphetamine
Assay Type Enzyme immunoassay Same
Matrix Oral Fluid Same
Controls 2 levels Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Cutoff 45 ng/mL 100 ng/mL
Calibrators 3 levels 2 levels
The LZI predicate devices are similar in assay type, matrix, calibrators and
controls. They differ in that they measure different analytes.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Qualitative detection of
amphetamine			Same		
Assay Type			Enzyme immunoassay			Same		
Matrix			Oral Fluid			Same		
Controls			2 levels			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Cutoff			45 ng/mL			100 ng/mL		
Calibrators			3 levels			2 levels		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
The assay is based on competition between drug labeled with glucose-6-phosphate
dehydrogenase (G6PDH) enzyme and free drug from the saliva sample for a fixed
amount of specific antibody. In the absence of free drug from the sample the
antibody binds to the drug labeled G6PDH enzyme thus decreasing the enzymatic
activity of the G6PDH. The G6PDH activity is measured spectrophotometrically at
340 nm because of conversion of NAD to NADH.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision studies were performed by using the negative, cutoff and high
calibrators and two levels of controls. Testing was performed in replicates of
6, twice a day for 10 days for all concentrations. The within-run % CV ranged
from 0.46 to 0.63% and the Total precision % CV ranged from 0.70 to 1.02%.
The recovery study showed that the assay correctly identified spiked samples
at approximately 50% above the cutoff as positive and at approximately 50%
below the cutoff as negative.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable. This is a qualitative assay.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
A commercially available standard solution is made into a secondary (lower
concentration) stock solution. The secondary stock solution is then spiked into
the calibrators and controls to the desired concentration. The concentrations
are confirmed by GC/MS.
Stability Studies:
Real time and accelerated studies have been conducted. Protocols and
acceptance criteria were described and found to be acceptable. The
manufacturer claims the following expiration date:
When stored at 2-8 ºC product is good until expiration date which is 18
months.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Stability of amphetamine in the Salivette collection device was determined by
taking a pool of negative oral fluid samples spiked at three different
concentrations and split into three hundred and thirty-three samples. On day
1, samples were run to determine the baseline that subsequent runs were
compared to. Of the remaining 100 samples for each concentration half were
stored at 2-8 ºC and the other half were stored frozen -20 ºC. The study was
conducted over 22 days and samples were run on days 1, 2, 8, 12, 15 and 22.
The sample is stable for 21 days when stored at refrigerator 2-8 ºC or frozen -
20 ºC.
d. Detection limit:
See the Precision/Reproducibility section above for performance around the
stated cutoff concentration.
e. Analytical specificity:
Various potentially interfering substances were evaluated to determine
whether they interfere with assay results. Test compounds were spiked into
the drug-free calibrator to various concentrations and evaluated against the
cutoff calibrator. The labeling lists the concentration of each compound that
gave a response approximately equal to that of the cutoff calibrator (as
positive) or the maximal concentration of compound tested that remained
negative. The only compound that was seen to significantly cross-react was
MDA (see below).
Compound ng/mL Positive
d-amphetamine 30
MDA 85
PMA 300
f. Assay cut-off:
The stated cutoff of this assay, which includes the dilution of the sample with
the Salivette collection device, is 45 ng/mL. Characterization of how the
device performs analytically around the claimed cutoff concentration appears
in the precision/reproducibility section above.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
One hundred and twelve clinical oral fluid specimens were collected. The oral
fluid specimens were tested with LZI Oral Fluid Amphetamine-Specific
Enzyme Immunoassay and compared to a Gas Chromatography/ Mass
Spectrophotometer (GC/MS).
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Compound	ng/mL Positive
d-amphetamine	30
MDA	85
PMA	300

--- Page 6 ---
Results from the study are presented below. The table describes the agreement
between the device and the GC/MS.
GC/MS
Positive Negative
Positive 56 2*
LZI EIA
Negative 1** 44
*Two samples contain less than 45 ng/mL of amphetamine
**One sample contains amphetamine of 45 ng/mL
% Agreement = 97.1%
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. This device is intended for use with only one matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
		GC/MS	
		Positive	Negative
LZI EIA	Positive	56	2*
	Negative	1**	44

--- Page 7 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7