
--- Page 1 ---
Ko $
510(k) Submission For I 1 2007
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test
New Bay Bioresearch Co., Ltd.
510(k) SUMMARY
This summary of 510(k) safety and effectiveness information is submitted in accordance with the
requirements of SMDA 1990 and 21 CFR 807.92.
510(k) Number: Designed (k) Number to be Determined
Submitter:
Tianjin New Bay Bioresearch Co., Ltd.
#3 Jian She Rd, Ba Li Tai Industry Area Jin Nan District,
Tianjin, China
Telephone: 86-22-28751515
Facsimile: 86-222-875-1516
Contact Person:
Rodrigo Berlie
New Product Development Director
Telephone: (760) 828-0990
Facsimile: (760) 602-2999
Preparation Date:
December 08, 2006
Device Information:
Trade or Proprietary Name:
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test
Common/Usual Name:
Lateral flow immunochromatographic assay for detection of human hemoglobin or fecal occult
blood in feces
Device Classification Name:
Immunoassay of human hemoglobin or fecal occult blood
Regulatory Name:
Human Hemoglobin or Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Test System
Regulation Section: 21 CFR ยง 866. 6550
Regulatory Class: Class II
Product Code: KHE
CONFIDENTIAL
9

--- Page 2 ---
510(k) Submission For
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test
New Bay Bioresearch Co., Ltd.
Panel: Hematology (81)
Predicate Devices:
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test is substantially equivalent to
WHPM Hemosure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Test cleared by FDA (K041202) for its
stated intended use.
Device Description:
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test is a qualitative, sandwich
colloidal gold conjugate immunoassay for the determination of human hemoglobin in feces. The
method employs a unique combination of monoclonal antibodies to selectively identify
hemoglobin in test sample with a high degree of sensitivity. In less than 5 minutes, elevated
levels of human hemoglobin as low as 50 ng/ml can be detected, and positive results for high
levels of hemoglobin can be seen in the test as early as two to three minutes. As the test sample
flows through the absorbent device, the Colloidal Gold labeled antibody- conjugate binds to the
hemoglobin in the specimen forming an antibody-antigen complex. This complex binds to
another anti-hemoglobin antibody in the positive reaction zone and produces a pink-ross color
band when hemoglobin concentration is greater than 50 ng/ml. In the absence of hemoglobin,
there is no line in the positive reaction zone. The reaction mixture continues flowing through the
absorbent device past the positive reaction zone and negative control zone. Unbind conjugate
binds to the reagents in the negative control zone, producing a pink rose color band,
demonstrating that the reagents and device are functioning correctly.
A NEGATIVE specimen produces one distinct color bands in control area. A POSITIVE
specimen produces two color band in the control and test area. There is no meaning attributed to
color or its intensity for either line.
Intended Use:
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test is a rapid,
immunochromatographic assay for the qualitative detection of intact hHb (human hemoglobin)
in fecal specimens. It is a convenient and hygienic method for detecting human fecal occult
blood, which may be in dicative of gastrointestinal disease associated with bleeding such as
colorectal carcinoma, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and colon polyps in humans.
Comparison to Predicate Device(s):
Both devices (Forsure and WHPM) are for the qualitative determination of the Fecal Occult
Blood. The specific antibodies against human hemoglobin were used in both devices. All test
devices are visually -read single use device. The cutoff of each analyte is same (50 ng/ml or 50
ig/g of feces).
CONFIDENTIAL
10

--- Page 3 ---
510(k) Submission For
Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test
New Bay Bioresearch Co., Ltd.
Summary:
The information provided in this pre-market notification demonstrates that Forsure
One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test is substantially equivalent to WHPM
Hemosure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Test. Substantial equivalence was demonstrated
through comparison of intended use and physical properties to the commercially available and
analytical predicate devices. The information supplied in this pre-market notification provides
reasonable assurance that the Forsure One Step Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Screen Card Test is
safe and effective for its stated intended use.
CONFIDENTIAL
11