
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k063866
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of Syphilis IgG assay on the BioPlex™ 2200
C. Measurand:
Syphilis IgG
D. Type of Test:
Multiplex Flow Immunoassay (multiplex fluoromagnetic bead assay)
E. Applicant:
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Kit on the BioPlex™ 2200 Multi-Analyte Detection System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
CFR 866.3830 Treponema pallidum Treponemal test reagents
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
LIP Enzyme-linked immunoabsorption assay, Treponema pallidum
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Bio-Rad Syphilis IgG kit is a multiplex flow immunoassay intended for the
qualitative detection of Treponema pallidum IgG antibodies in human serum. This test
system is also indicated for use for confirming reactive test results from non-treponemal
based screening assays.
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

--- Page 2 ---
The test system, when used in conjunction with non-treponemal based assays, provides
serological evidence of infection with T. pallidum.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
The BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Kit is not intended for use in screening blood or
plasma donors.
Warning: A positive result is not useful for establishing a diagnosis of syphilis. In most
situations, such a result may reflect prior treated infection; a negative result can exclude a
diagnosis of syphilis except for incubating or early primary disease.
4. Special instrument requirements:
The Syphilis IgG kit is intended for use with the Bio-Rad BioPlex™ 2200 Multi-Analyte
Detection System.
I. Device Description:
The BioPlex™ 2200 System consists of the BioPlex™ 2200 Instrument, the BioPlex™
2200 family of multiplexed assays, and the BioPlex™ 2200 software.The BioPlex™ 2200
Instrument is a fully automated, floor-standing, self contained, immunoassay analyzer for
multiplex assays that can generate results on demand in less than one hour. Reactions occur on
the surface of fluoromagnetic beads and all reagents needed are contained within panel specific
reagent packs that are stored onboard with refrigeration. A series of control beads is evaluated in
each reaction to ensure reliable results for each sample. The analyzer incorporates a dedicated
software package for instrument control, data collection, results analysis, calibration, quality
control, and service software.
KIT COMPONENTS
The reagent pack contains supplies sufficient for 100 tests.
1. Bead Set which contains dyed beads coated with T. pallidum, Internal Standard (ISB),
Serum Verification (SVB), and a Reagent Blank (RBB)
2. Conjugate
3. Sample Diluent
The BioPlex™ 2200 syphilis IgG assay combines an aliquot of patient sample, sample diluent,
and bead set reagent into a reaction vessel. The mixture is incubated at 37 0C. After a wash
cycle, anti-human IgG antibody, conjugated to the fluorescent protein phycoerythrin, is added to
the dyed beads (r15, r17, and r47) and this mixture is incubated at 37 0C. The excess is removed
in another wash cycle and the beads are re-suspended in wash buffer. The bead mixture then
passes through the detector. The identity of the dyed beads is determined by the fluorescence of
2

--- Page 3 ---
the dyes, and the amount of antibody captured by the antigen is determined by the fluorescence
of the attached phycoerythrin. Raw data are calculated in relative fluorescence intensity (RFI).
Three additional dyed beads, Internal Standard Bead (ISB), Serum Verification Bead (SVB), and
a Reagent Blank Bead (RBB) are present in each reaction mixture to verify detector response, the
addition of serum to the reaction vessel, and the absence of significant non-specific binding in
serum, respectively.
The syphilis IgG assays are calibrated using a set of four calibrator vials. For the IgG assays, the
calibrator sets represent different antibody concentrations and are used for qualitative
calibration. Results are calculated for each of the three antibodies and are compared against their
own respective cut-off. Results are expressed as an antibody index (AI). A result of ≤ 0.9 AI is
considered negative, ≥ 1.1 positive, and 0.9 to 1.1 indeterminate. For specimens that are
indeterminate, a patient sample can be re-collected in the future for additional testing. A single
test result is reported after completing a composite analysis of all the antibodies (the highest AI
value determined for the three syphilis antigens is reported and used for interpretation).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Trep-Check Anti-Treponema IgG EIA (Phoenix Bio-Tech Corp.)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k001552
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
between BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Predicate EIA
Components / Kit
Materials
Intended Use Qualitative detection of IgG Qualitative detection of IgG
antibodies to Treponema antibodies to Treponema
pallidum. pallidum.
Reagents Wash Buffer, Sample Diluent Sample Diluent, Wash Buffer
Calibrator(s) Calibrators Calibrator
Controls Negative Control and multi- Negative Control and Positive
analyte Positive Control Control
Differences
Solid Phase Bead reagent - dyed antigen 96 well microplate – antigen
coated beads. coated microwells.
Reagents Conjugate: Anti-human IgG / Conjugate: goat anti-human
Phycoerythrin. IgG / horseradish peroxidase,
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Similarities	
between
Components /
Materials	BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG
Kit	Predicate EIA
Intended Use	Qualitative detection of IgG
antibodies to Treponema
pallidum.	Qualitative detection of IgG
antibodies to Treponema
pallidum.
Reagents	Wash Buffer, Sample Diluent	Sample Diluent, Wash Buffer
Calibrator(s)	Calibrators	Calibrator
Controls	Negative Control and multi-
analyte Positive Control	Negative Control and Positive
Control
	Differences	
Solid Phase	Bead reagent - dyed antigen
coated beads.	96 well microplate – antigen
coated microwells.
Reagents	Conjugate: Anti-human IgG /
Phycoerythrin.	Conjugate: goat anti-human
IgG / horseradish peroxidase,

--- Page 4 ---
Substrate (TMB), Stop
Solution.
Sheath Fluid Sheath Fluid is used to suspend Not similar; not utilized in
the bead reagent and introduce EIA’s.
it into the detector.
Analyte Detection Multi-analyte detection of Detection of human IgG
human IgG antibodies to antibodies to Treponema
Treponema pallidum. pallidum.
Matrices Serum. Serum and Plasma.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance
Review Criteria for In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for Detection of IGM Antibodies to Viral
Agents http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/ode/527.pdf
Guidance on Informed Consent for In Vitro Diagnostic Device Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not Individually Identifiable - Guidance for Sponsors, Institutional Review
Boards, Clinical Investigators and FDA Staff
http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/oivd/guidance/1588.html
L. Test Principle:
BioPlex™ 2200 immunoassays use heterogeneous (multiplex) sets of magnetic beads to
simultaneously detect multiple analytes. The beads are infused with varying ratios of two
fluorescent classification dyes, creating unique bead sets. Beads within each set are coated with
a ligand (i.e., antigen, antibody, analyte, etc.) specific to a particular assay, allowing the capture
and detection of specific analytes from a sample. Target analytes are captured on bead surfaces
and probed with a corresponding fluorescent conjugate. With excitation and emission spectra
distinct from those of the classification dyes used to identify analyte and control beads, the
conjugate serves as the “reporter” fluorescence signal. Three additional dyed beads, an Internal
Standard Bead (ISB), a Serum Verification Bead (SVG), and a Reagent Blank Bead (RBB) are
present in each reaction mixture to verify detector response, the addition of serum to the reaction
vessel, and the absence of significant non-specific binding in serum.
After the reaction, bead fluorescence is measured by the instrument in a manner similar to the
way fluorescently-labeled cells are evaluated in a standard flow cytometer. The beads flow
single file through a flow cell in a sheath of fluid to be interrogated by two lasers. As each bead
travels through the interrogation zone, light scatter and fluorescence are measured. Signals from
one laser are used to determine bead classification (specific analyte or control), and signals from
the other laser are used to measure reporter fluorescence (sample reactivity). System software
converts the reporter signal to a Relative Fluorescence Intensity (RFI) value, which is then
converted to a fluorescence ratio (FR) using the inherent reporter fluorescence of the Internal
Standard Bead (ISB). Fluorescence Ratio is compared to an assay-specific calibration curve to
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Sheath Fluid	Sheath Fluid is used to suspend
the bead reagent and introduce
it into the detector.	Not similar; not utilized in
EIA’s.
Analyte Detection	Multi-analyte detection of
human IgG antibodies to
Treponema pallidum.	Detection of human IgG
antibodies to Treponema
pallidum.
Matrices	Serum.	Serum and Plasma.

--- Page 5 ---
determine analyte concentration in antibody index (AI) or other appropriate units, or to score the
result qualitatively as reactive, equivocal, or non-reactive.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility testing was performed at three US testing facilities on a total of three (3)
lots of the Syphilis IgG kit, three (3) lots of the Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set, and three (3) lots of
the Syphilis IgG Control Set. The panel was tested in duplicate (x2) on two (2) runs per day for
three (3) days using one (1) lot of BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Reagent Pack and one (1) lot of
Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set (2 times x 2 runs x 3 days x 3 sites = 36 replicates per panel member
and controls). The data were analyzed for intra-assay and inter-assay reproducibility and results
as shown in the table below.
The reproducibility panel consisted of seven (7) panel members for each of the three (3)
recombinant proteins associated with T. pallidum (15kD, 17kD, and 47kD); two high positive,
two positive antibody levels near the cutoff, two high negative, and one low negative for each
analyte. Additionally, one positive control for 15kD and 47kD, one positive control for 17kD,
and a negative control (antibody negative for all analytes) were also tested.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Precision Study
Precision testing was performed at one site using one lot of the Syphilis IgG kit, one lot of the
Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set and one lot of the Syphilis IgG Control Set. The panel was tested in
duplicate (x2) on two (2) runs per day for twenty (20) days using one (1) lot of Syphilis IgG kit,
one (1) lot of Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set and one (1) lot of Syphilis IgG Control Set (2 times x 2
runs x 20 days = 80 replicates per panel member). The data were analyzed for intra-assay and
inter-assay precision as shown in the tables below.
The precision panel consisted of nine (9) panel members for each of the three (3) recombinant
proteins associated with T. pallidum (15kD, 17kD and 47kD) where in two (2) had high reactive
levels, two (2) had low reactive levels, and two (2) had antibody levels near the cut-off.
Additionally, there were two (2) high negative panel members and one (1) low negative panel
member for each analyte.
6

--- Page 7 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
High dose effect was not evaluated as it is not relevant to two step indirect
heterogenous assay formats.
However, an internal dilution linearity study was conducted using 5 high analyte
positive patient samples. These high samples were initially diluted in negative human
serum to bring within the assay range. Each dilution was tested a minimum of four
times. The results of this study demonstrated that all dilutions recovered were within
the acceptance criteria. The data demonstrated that the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG
has an acceptable linear range between 0.2 to 8.0 AI. Under and over-range results
would be reported as <0.2 AI, and >8.0 AI.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
QC was performed each day of testing with the following results.
On-Board Calibration stability study was performed using one lot. After initial calibration of
newly opened reagent lot, calibrators and controls were tested as samples up to 35 days. A 30-
day calibration stability is claimed in the insert.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Stability Studies
An Open Vial Stability study was conducted where control and calibrator vials were stored at
2-8°C and tested for 72 days. The study was carried out to mimic customer handling of open
controls and calibrators. The results of the study support the 60-day open vial claim.
Accelerated Stability Testing: These studies were performed on pilot lots at elevated
temperatures in order to observe changes in product performance more rapidly than would be
seen under normal storage conditions.
To support the product’s 18-month shelf life at 2-8°C, accelerated stability studies were
conducted for the calibrators and controls by incubating each vial for multiple time points at
25°C, 35°C, and 41°C. Unopened vials were incubated at each temperature for the times
indicated in the stability procedure to predict the shelf life stability. The data predicts stability
for all analytes to be greater than 18 months when stored at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
This is a qualitative assay (Reactive, Non-Reactive, or Equivocal Results) so there is no
limit of detection.
e. Analytical specificity:
Separate interfering substances and cross reactivity studies were conducted internally to
evaluate the potential interference of specific endogenous and exogenous substances and to
determine whether or not cross-reactivity occurs in the presence of non-Syphilis IgG antibodies
with the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit.
Interfering Substances
For the interfering substances study, human serum samples that were previously characterized as
positive for the various Syphilis IgG markers at concentrations near the middle of the assay
range were spiked with various interfering substances. A control was made for each interfering
substance by spiking the pooled sera with the solvent or solution used to make the interfering
substance spiking solution. The test sample and control were run in replicates of 10 using one
reagent lot. No significant interference was observed in any of the endogenous or exogenous
substances tested.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Results are summarized in the table below.
Cross Reactivity
A cross-reactivity study was performed to determine if samples from various disease states and
other potentially interfering factors interfere with test results when tested with the BioPlex™
2200 Syphilis IgG kit. A panel of ten (10) specimens positive for each cross reactant were
evaluated for possible cross reactivity with the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit. The test
specimens were also evaluated by TPPA, and where BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG results did not
agree with TPPA, samples were further tested by RPR and a commercially available EIA. The
results demonstrated that the various disease state samples evaluated do not cross react with the
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit. Most of the samples evaluated were high positive for each
disease state. The majority of all samples that elicited a positive result were also confirmed
positive by another treponemal antibody test (TPPA), indicating reactivity to Syphilis (T.
pallidum) IgG antibodies rather than cross reactivity. Results are summarized in the table below.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Sample Probe and Reagent Probe Carryover Studies were performed with no observable
effect.
f. Assay cut-off:
The BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG assay displays results as an antibody index (AI) and reports
the highest value based on the three assay beads.
A final cut-off of 1.2 was established for all Syphilis IgG assays based on an evaluation of 735
serum samples. The population included 521 Syphilis IgG negative samples of which 312 were
from pregnant women. The remaining samples were positive by one or more Syphilis analytes.
All samples were characterized by commercially available methods. ROC analysis was
performed for each analyte using this population of samples. For the purpose of establishing a
cut-off, samples that were equivocal on the commercially available methods were not used
10

--- Page 11 ---
during ROC analysis or in evaluating the concordance statistics. The BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis
cut-off was adjusted slightly to reduce the number of false positive samples. Using this cut-off,
Syphilis IgG exhibited negative and positive agreement of 98.5% and 100%. Calibrators will be
re-assigned prior to product introduction so that the final cut-off is 1.0.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Clinical study consisted of 1,750 serum samples evaluated at 3 US sites using the
BioPlex™ 2200. Three lots of BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Reagent Packs, three lots of
calibrator sets and three lots of control sets were used in the evaluation as stated in the
submission. Approximately one-third of each sample population was tested on one of the
three BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG lots. Each lot was calibrated using the appropriately
matched calibrator.
All serum samples evaluated for concordance were tested with reference nontreponemal
(RPR) and treponemal (TPPA) assays. Samples that were positive by both RPR and
TPPA were reference assay positive. Samples that were negative by both RPR and TPPA
were reference assay negative. Samples with discordant RPR and TPPA results were
further tested with a treponemal IgG EIA to determine the final reference assays result.
However, samples with BioPlex™ results that differ from RPR/TPPA results were not
further tested unless a suspected error has occurred.
The following populations were tested.
1. Five hundred (500) purchased banked serum samples from pregnant women:
These frozen serum samples were purchased from a New York vendor. One
sample was excluded because it did not meet the eligibility criteria for pregnancy. Two
samples with a BioPlex™ 2200 analysis error message which did not resolve on repeat
testing were excluded from the data analysis. Therefore, only four hundred ninety seven
samples are represented.
Results are summarized below.
11

--- Page 12 ---
2. Five hundred (500) banked serum samples from patients with a syphilis test
ordered:
These frozen serum samples were collected at a hospital in CA. Two hundred
twenty seven (227) samples were from females, and 273 were from males. The age range
for this population was from 3 – 86 years. Ethnicity information was also included in
submission.
3. Two hundred-fifty (250) banked purchased serum samples requested to be
RPR/TPPA reactive:
These frozen serum samples were purchased from a New York vendor.
The results from testing with the reference assays and BioPlex™ 2200 are
presented below.
12

--- Page 13 ---
4. Four hundred thirty nine (439) purchased banked samples from pregnant
women; 189 requested to be treponemal assay positive and 250 requested to be
RPR/TPPA non-reactive:
These frozen serum samples were purchased from a vendor in New York. Four of
the 189 samples requested to be treponemal assay positive were excluded because they
did not meet eligibility criteria; three did not meet the eligibility criteria for pregnancy,
and one did not meet eligibility criteria for positive treponemal assay result.
Additionally, two of the 189 samples requested to be treponemal assay positive were
excluded because they had BioPlex™ 2200 analysis error message. Therefore a total of
183 samples requested to be treponemal assay positive, and 250 samples requested to be
RPR/TPPA non-reactive were evaluated. Results are summarized below.
13

--- Page 14 ---
5. One hundred (100) purchased propectively collected banked serum samples
from treated or untreated patients with primary or secondary syphilis
infections:
These serum samples were collected with informed consent at 2 different sites in
FL, and one site in TX and were purchased by the device manufacturer. Four samples
were excluded due to informed consent or enrollment issues. Thirteen samples were
excluded because they did not meet eligibility criteria after source data verification.
Three samples were excluded because eligibility could not be located. Seventy (70) of
the samples could be verified with a medical diagnosis but primary or secondary syphilis
could not be verified, and/or collection date of the samples did not coincide with the
syphilis diagnosis date. Therefore, these samples were analyzed for concordance with the
reference assays. Of the 100 samples collected; ten (10) samples were verified as treated
or untreated primary or secondary syphilis.
6. Two hundred twenty (220) Banked Known HIV-1 Positive Serum samples
Performance of the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG was evaluated in two
hundred (220) banked known HIV-1. Results were compared to reference
assay results for RPR/TPPA and if applicable EIA. Using reference assays
14

--- Page 15 ---
samples that were positive by both RPR and TPPA were reference assay
positive. Samples that were negative by both RPR and TPPA were reference
assay negative. Samples with discordant RPR and TPPA results were further
tested with a treponemal IgG EIA to determine the final reference assay
results. Results are summarized in the table below.
b. Matrix comparison:
Human serum is the only sample type utilized by the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit assays.
3. Clinical studies:
CDC panel of one hundred forty-three (143) well-characterized serum samples from
treated and untreated patients with primary, secondary, and latent syphilis infections:
The performance of the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit was evaluated with a well
characterized CDC panel of one hundred forty-three samples from treated or untreated
patients with primary, secondary, or latent syphilis infection. Three (3) samples from this
population had a BioPlex™ 2200 analysis error message. These samples were excluded
from the data analysis. Results for the 140 samples by known clinical status are presented
below.
The CDC samples were also tested with reference assay tests for RPR and TPPA and if
applicable EIA. Samples that are positive by both RPR and TPPA were reference assay
positive. Samples that were negative by both RPR and TPPA were reference assay positive.
Samples that were negative by both RPR and TPPA were reference assay negative. Samples
with discordant RPR and TPPA results further tested with a treponemal IgG EIA to
determine the reference assay result. Results are summarized below.
15

--- Page 16 ---
The performance of the Syphilis IgG kit was further evaluated at one clinical testing site
using banked prospectively collected serum samples from treated and untreated patients with
primary and secondary syphilis infections (N=10). Performance of the Syphilis IgG kit in the
10 samples was compared to a corresponding composite result using commercially available
(RPR, TPPA and if required treponemal EIA) kits by known clinical status. Results are
summarized in the table below.
16

--- Page 17 ---
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Results are calculated for each of the three (3) antibodies, compared against its respective cut-
off, and are expressed as an antibody index (AI). A single result is reported after completing a
composite analysis of all the antibodies (the highest AI value is reported). Results of ≤0.8 AI are
nonreactive, 0.9 and 1.0 AI are equivocal, and ≥1.1 AI are reported as reactive.
For specimens that are equivocal, the patient sample can be re-collected for additional testing. In
conjunction with these results, the immune status of patients should be evaluated based on their
clinical status, related risk factors, and other diagnostic test results. Initially, reactive results
should be supplemented with a non-treponemal test to distinguish between present and past
infection. An additional sample should be obtained (one drawn at a later date) if the results of
non-treponemal and treponemal tests do not establish a diagnosis.
The following table can be used for additional interpretation of results:
17

--- Page 18 ---
N. Instrument Name:
BioPlex™ 2200 Multi-Analyte Detection System
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The BioPlex™ 2200 is a fully-automated, random access, multiplex testing platform.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicants Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes __X______ or No ________
The BioPlex™ 2200 instrument incorporates a dedicated software package for instrument
control, data collection, results analysis, calibration, quality control, as well as service
software. BioPlex™ 2200 System Software version 1.0 was previously reviewed by
FDA under the original submission (k041658). The Device Hazard Analysis was
reviewed by FDA under that submission. As indicated in the Product Classification
section, BioPlex™ 2200 System Software is now at version 2.0.
3. Specimen Identification:
Samples are identified on the BioPlex™ 2200 instrument by barcodes on each sample
18

--- Page 19 ---
tube, corresponding to the sample’s accession identification number.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The Instructions For Use for the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG kit instructs the user to
thoroughly mix thawed specimens before testing and also recommends that users
centrifuge specimens prior to loading specimens on the instrument. As described in
BioPlex™ 2200 Operation Manual, the instrument samples specimens directly from open
sample tubes.
5. Calibration:
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set:
Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma containing antibodies to
4 vials – 0.5 mL each Treponema pallidum (15kD, 17kD, and 47kD)
Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300
The BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set is intended for the calibration of the
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Reagent Pack.
The Syphilis IgG Calibrator Set should be loaded and assayed at minimum in duplicate
every 30 days or with each new lot of BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Reagent Pack. They
are loaded before control or patient samples are processed. A BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis
IgG Calibrator Lot Data CD-ROM is required to load the necessary value assignment
data into the instrument. The Calibrator Lot Data CD-ROM has an XML file that
contains calibrator value assignment data and describes all the properties for the
calibrator lot that are needed to perform calibrations. All the vials have a pre-affixed
barcode, identifying them as calibrators. The barcode contains the level and lot number
of the calibrator.
A calibration event occurs when a calibrator set is processed for an active reagent lot. All
reagent lots must have successful calibration events to be used for sample analysis. When
calibration is performed, all reportable analytes for a given reagent lot are calibrated
simultaneously. Therefore, all analytes in a kit become available for analysis upon
calibration.
6. Quality Control:
Reagent Bead Quality Control
There are three quality control beads in every BioPlex™ 2200 assay. These beads serve
to evaluate samples as they are processed and report any control issues as they occur and
are described below:
Reagent Blank Bead (RBB): The Reagent Blank Bead is a non-antigen coated bead that
serves to identify sample problems arising from non-specific binding.
19

[Table 1 on page 19]
4 vials – 0.5 mL each	Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma containing antibodies to
Treponema pallidum (15kD, 17kD, and 47kD)
Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300

--- Page 20 ---
Internal Standard Bead (ISB): The Internal Standard Bead performs fluorescence
intensity data-correction. The inherent fluorescent signal of the Internal Standard Bead is
used to detect and compensate for Detector Module fluctuations that may occur during
sample analysis.
Serum Verification Bead (SVB): The Serum Verification Bead ensures that serum or
plasma is present.
In-Kit Quality Control
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Control Set
NEGATIVE CONTROL Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma negative for antibodies to
Treponema pallidum
2 vials – 1.5 mL each Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300
POSITIVE CONTROL Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma containing antibodies to T.
pallidum 17kD, and containing antibodies to T. pallidum 15kD and 47kD
4 vials – 1.5 mL each Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300
The BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Control Set is intended for use as an assayed quality
control to monitor the overall performance of the BioPlex™ 2200 Instrument and
BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Reagent Pack in the clinical laboratory. The performance
of the BioPlex™ 2200 Syphilis IgG Control Set has not been established with any other
Syphilis assays.
The recommended minimum frequency for performing quality control is once every 24-
hour testing period. The vials can be directly loaded into the instrument sample racks and
processed with the Syphilis IgG Reagent Pack in the same manner as patient samples.
All the vials have a pre-affixed barcode, a unique lot number and a QC prefix identifying
it as a quality control sample.
Performing quality control is also necessary after each new assay calibration and certain
service procedures. Quality control procedures are performed by first informing the
BioPlex™ 2200 system software of the provided lot specific control values, either
manually or by CD-ROM, and then loading and processing the quality control samples in
the same manner as patient samples.
P. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
Q. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
20

[Table 1 on page 20]
NEGATIVE CONTROL
2 vials – 1.5 mL each	Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma negative for antibodies to
Treponema pallidum
Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300
POSITIVE CONTROL
4 vials – 1.5 mL each	Human Serum made from defibrinated plasma containing antibodies to T.
pallidum 17kD, and containing antibodies to T. pallidum 15kD and 47kD
Preservatives: 0.3% ProClin® 300