
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070593
B. Purpose for Submission:
New submission for an accessory data management software application for glucose
meters
C. Measurand:
Glucose
D. Type of Test:
An accessory device, the TrackRecord DMS, for diabetes management, is a
stand-alone optional data management software accessory supplied in CD format for
use with Home Diagnostics brand Smart System blood glucose meters such as the
TrueTrack and Prestige IQ Smart System meters. The software is installed onto a
personal computer (PC) and the blood glucose meter is connected to the PC via a data
cable (k040670). When used with TrueTrack or Prestige IQ meters, TrackRecord
DMS permits the management of blood glucose data transferred from the meter
memory to the computer for enhanced data management capability.
E. Applicant:
Home Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
TrackRecord Data Management Software
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec. - 862.1345-Glucose test system.
21CFR Sec.-862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I, respectively
3. Product code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over The Counter
JQP-Calculator/Data Processing Module, For Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
TrackRecord Data Management Software (DMS) is intended for use in the home
or in clinical settings, for single or multi-patient use, to assist people with diabetes
as well as their healthcare professionals in the review, analysis and evaluation of
historical blood glucose test results to support effective diabetes management.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
1 of 10

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
Home Diagnostics brand Smart System blood glucose meters such as the
TrueTrack and Prestige IQ Smart System meters.
TrackRecord DMS is compatible with Windows 98 Second Edition (SE),
Windows 2000 and Windows XP Home and Professional. The software operates
per 600 MHz Intel® Pentium® III or equivalent, with a minimum 128 MB of
RAM, and uses 100 - 200 MB during installation and 100 MB after installation. A
9-pin / 25-pin COM or USB port is required with a serial or USB data cable. A
CD-ROM is required.
I. Device Description:
Software application features include data management for single at-home patient use
and multiple-patient use for the healthcare professional in the clinical setting. Users
can input patient healthcare and ID information, and select date range, glucose units,
target glucose ranges, and meal time blocks.
Five reports are available:
1) Summary Report that combines the reports listed below.
2) Electronic Log Book that displays glucose results in a similar manner to a paper
log book
3) Conformance Report to graphically represent the percentages of glucose results
outside the target range and below the hypoglycemic threshold previously set up
by the user.
4) Trend Report to show a graphical representation of daily blood glucose results.
5) Extended Log Book Report is a more comprehensive report than the Log Book
Report displaying patient information, glucose target and hypoglycemic ranges,
reference method, date of the report, and date range of 2 glucose results. The
report calculates the average result for the time slot, the number of results above
the target range for that time slot, the number of results below the target range for
that time slot, the number of hypoglycemic results for that time slot, and the
percentages for above target, below target, within target, and hypoglycemic.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
LifeScan IN TOUCH Diabetes Management System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k984527
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software
System
Installation of program Installed using CD Installed using CD
2 of 10

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management Software	TrackRecord Data
Management
System
Installation of program	Installed using CD	Installed using CD

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software
System
Package Contents Choice of Software and Choice of Software and
Electronic Instructions for Electronic Instructions for
Use/Registration – or– Use/Registration – or–
Software, Electronic Software, Electronic
Instructions for Instructions for
Use/Registration and Use/Registration and
USB/9 pin USB/9 pin
Cable availability Serial Cable, Cable Serial Cable, Cable
available separately available separately
Capable of uploading data Software driver must be Software driver must be
from uploaded on the device or uploaded on the device or
various devices installed on PC. installed on PC.
Computer System 9-pin or 25 pin COM or 9-pin or 25 pin COM or
Requirements USB port USB port
CD-ROM drive CD-ROM drive
Windows Operating System Windows Operating System
98 SE 98 SE
Windows 2000 Windows 2000
Professional, and Professional, and
Windows XP Home and Windows XP Home and
Professional. Professional.
Minimum of 128 MB of Minimum of 128 MB of
RAM. RAM.
100-200 MB minimum free 100-200 MB minimum free
hard disc space during hard disc space during
installation, 100 MB after installation, 100 MB after
installation. installation.
Video Monitor and adapter Video Monitor and adapter
with at least 800x600 pixel with at least 800x600 pixel
screen resolution and 256 screen resolution and 256
colors colors
Software use indications Home or clinic settings Single or Multiple user
settings.
Manual Entry Ability to add records Ability to add records
manually. manually.
Copy database to separate Yes Yes
file.
Deleting Results Only Manual entry results Only Manual entry results
may be deleted. may be deleted.
Deleting Patients and all Yes Yes
accompanying records.
3 of 10

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management Software	TrackRecord Data
Management
System
Package Contents	Choice of Software and
Electronic Instructions for
Use/Registration – or–
Software, Electronic
Instructions for
Use/Registration and
USB/9 pin	Choice of Software and
Electronic Instructions for
Use/Registration – or–
Software, Electronic
Instructions for
Use/Registration and
USB/9 pin
Cable availability	Serial Cable, Cable
available separately	Serial Cable, Cable
available separately
Capable of uploading data
from
various devices	Software driver must be
uploaded on the device or
installed on PC.	Software driver must be
uploaded on the device or
installed on PC.
Computer System
Requirements	9-pin or 25 pin COM or
USB port	9-pin or 25 pin COM or
USB port
	CD-ROM drive	CD-ROM drive
	Windows Operating System
98 SE	Windows Operating System
98 SE
	Windows 2000
Professional, and	Windows 2000
Professional, and
	Windows XP Home and
Professional.	Windows XP Home and
Professional.
	Minimum of 128 MB of
RAM.	Minimum of 128 MB of
RAM.
	100-200 MB minimum free
hard disc space during
installation, 100 MB after
installation.	100-200 MB minimum free
hard disc space during
installation, 100 MB after
installation.
	Video Monitor and adapter
with at least 800x600 pixel
screen resolution and 256
colors	Video Monitor and adapter
with at least 800x600 pixel
screen resolution and 256
colors
Software use indications	Home or clinic settings	Single or Multiple user
settings.
Manual Entry	Ability to add records
manually.	Ability to add records
manually.
Copy database to separate
file.	Yes	Yes
Deleting Results	Only Manual entry results
may be deleted.	Only Manual entry results
may be deleted.
Deleting Patients and all
accompanying records.	Yes	Yes

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software
System
Copy saved database back Yes Yes
to active DMS database.
Ability to default to Yes Yes
manufacturer settings
(mealtime slots, target
glucose ranges, etc.)
Language capabilities English, Spanish English, Spanish
Ability to uninstall DMS Yes Yes
program
Ability to access DMS Yes Yes
program via icon or
explorer.
Viewing the Owner’s Link provided via icon. Accessed via Help on
Manual toolbar or F1 on computer
Search for specific patient Yes Yes
in multiple (clinic) user
function.
Default glucose target Yes Yes
ranges available
Ability to personalize target Yes Yes
ranges.
Customizable schedule Yes Yes
Search patient capability Yes Yes
Result type display Choice of whole blood or Choice of whole blood or
plasma result types. plasma result types.
Units of measure display Choice of mmol/L or Choice of mmol/L or
mg/dL mg/dL
Ability to enter Yes Yes
hypoglycemic range
Ability to set default Yes Yes
favorite report.
Report Types Logbook, Glucose Trend, Logbook, Glucose Trend,
Pie Chart (Conformance), Pie Chart (Conformance),
Summary Summary
Ability to synchronize Yes Yes
meter clock to PC upon
download
Ability to display12 or 24 Yes Yes
hour clock format
Ability to change date Yes (mm/dd/yy or Yes ( mm-dd-yy, mmm-dd-
format dd/mm/yy) yyyy or yyyy-mm-dd)
4 of 10

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management Software	TrackRecord Data
Management
System
Copy saved database back
to active DMS database.	Yes	Yes
Ability to default to
manufacturer settings
(mealtime slots, target
glucose ranges, etc.)	Yes	Yes
Language capabilities	English, Spanish	English, Spanish
Ability to uninstall DMS
program	Yes	Yes
Ability to access DMS
program via icon or
explorer.	Yes	Yes
Viewing the Owner’s
Manual	Link provided via icon.	Accessed via Help on
toolbar or F1 on computer
Search for specific patient
in multiple (clinic) user
function.	Yes	Yes
Default glucose target
ranges available	Yes	Yes
Ability to personalize target
ranges.	Yes	Yes
Customizable schedule	Yes	Yes
Search patient capability	Yes	Yes
Result type display	Choice of whole blood or
plasma result types.	Choice of whole blood or
plasma result types.
Units of measure display	Choice of mmol/L or
mg/dL	Choice of mmol/L or
mg/dL
Ability to enter
hypoglycemic range	Yes	Yes
Ability to set default
favorite report.	Yes	Yes
Report Types	Logbook, Glucose Trend,
Pie Chart (Conformance),
Summary	Logbook, Glucose Trend,
Pie Chart (Conformance),
Summary
Ability to synchronize
meter clock to PC upon
download	Yes	Yes
Ability to display12 or 24
hour clock format	Yes	Yes
Ability to change date
format	Yes (mm/dd/yy or
dd/mm/yy)	Yes ( mm-dd-yy, mmm-dd-
yyyy or yyyy-mm-dd)

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software
System
Auto-detect COM port Yes Yes
Downloaded results cannot Yes Yes
be edited or deleted
Technical support Yes Yes
Differences
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software System
Units of measure Yes No
automatically set by country
in setup installation.
Ability to link to older Yes No older versions available
database versions. at this time.
Required information on No Yes, Patient ID (multiple
patient entry. users only), patient name
(first and last), street
address, and city.
Insurance information Only one insurance Two insurance providers
provider may be entered. may be entered.
Doctor information One doctor may be entered. Two doctors may be
entered.
Diabetes Educator One diabetes educator may Two diabetes educators
information be entered. may be entered.
Diabetes control Insulin list, medication list, Limited to insulin list and
diet/exercise options medication list
Ability to limit result Yes, with the exception of No
selection by last transfer the IN TOUCH Ultra
Indication for primary test Not available. Fingerstick or alternate site.
method.
Specifying/Entering Yes, up to 3 different Unlimited
medications/insulin medications/insulin types
Ability to enter insulin Yes No
regiment
Ability to specify Yes No
complications associated
with diabetes by patient
Ability to set default target Yes No
range by diabetes type
(Type I, Type II
Gestational, etc.),
5 of 10

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management Software	TrackRecord Data
Management
System
Auto-detect COM port	Yes	Yes
Downloaded results cannot
be edited or deleted	Yes	Yes
Technical support	Yes	Yes

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes	TrackRecord Data
Management
	Management Software	System
Units of measure
automatically set by country
in setup installation.	Yes	No
Ability to link to older
database versions.	Yes	No older versions available
at this time.
Required information on
patient entry.	No	Yes, Patient ID (multiple
users only), patient name
(first and last), street
address, and city.
Insurance information	Only one insurance
provider may be entered.	Two insurance providers
may be entered.
Doctor information	One doctor may be entered.	Two doctors may be
entered.
Diabetes Educator
information	One diabetes educator may
be entered.	Two diabetes educators
may be entered.
Diabetes control	Insulin list, medication list,
diet/exercise options	Limited to insulin list and
medication list
Ability to limit result
selection by last transfer	Yes, with the exception of
the IN TOUCH Ultra	No
Indication for primary test
method.	Not available.	Fingerstick or alternate site.
Specifying/Entering
medications/insulin	Yes, up to 3 different
medications/insulin types	Unlimited
Ability to enter insulin
regiment	Yes	No
Ability to specify
complications associated
with diabetes by patient	Yes	No
Ability to set default target
range by diabetes type
(Type I, Type II
Gestational, etc.),	Yes	No

--- Page 6 ---
Differences
TrackRecord Data
IN TOUCH Diabetes
Management
Management Software System
Report types Standard Day, Average Others available, not these
Readings, Insulin, specific types
Exception, Data List,
Histogram, Health Checks
Ability to view results and No On screen results may be
sort without generating sorted by individual meter
report (serial number), date, time,
result, time-slot, control
results, and manual entry
result
Ability to view control No Yes
results
Ability to set meter clock to Yes No
a specific date and time
Ability to show cholesterol Yes No
results/select units of
measure
Ability to modify meter Yes, 7, 14, 30,60, or 90 No
average results days
Change meter audio cues Yes No
Ability to clear meter Yes No
results in memory
Ability to input additional Yes – Insulin doses, carb No
information on patient and data, exercise data, health
downloaded results notes, comments
Ability to email report from Yes No
PC directly from program
Ability to enter test site for Yes No
manual result entry
Ability to input additional Yes - medication dosing, No
information on patient exercise data, food data,
health records, health
notes/data,
Ability to input additional Yes – test site, comments, No
information on manual
result
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI (NCCLS) GP14-A, Labeling of Home-Use In Vitro Testing Products.
FDA Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices
6 of 10

[Table 1 on page 6]
Differences		
	IN TOUCH Diabetes	TrackRecord Data
Management
	Management Software	System
Report types	Standard Day, Average
Readings, Insulin,
Exception, Data List,
Histogram, Health Checks	Others available, not these
specific types
Ability to view results and
sort without generating
report	No	On screen results may be
sorted by individual meter
(serial number), date, time,
result, time-slot, control
results, and manual entry
result
Ability to view control
results	No	Yes
Ability to set meter clock to
a specific date and time	Yes	No
Ability to show cholesterol
results/select units of
measure	Yes	No
Ability to modify meter
average results	Yes, 7, 14, 30,60, or 90
days	No
Change meter audio cues	Yes	No
Ability to clear meter
results in memory	Yes	No
Ability to input additional
information on patient and
downloaded results	Yes – Insulin doses, carb
data, exercise data, health
notes, comments	No
Ability to email report from
PC directly from program	Yes	No
Ability to enter test site for
manual result entry	Yes	No
Ability to input additional
information on patient	Yes - medication dosing,
exercise data, food data,
health records, health
notes/data,	No
Ability to input additional
information on manual
result	Yes – test site, comments,	No

--- Page 7 ---
L. Test Principle:
The TrackRecord DMS is an accessory to the TrueTrack and Prestige IQ Smart
System meters, see k030703 and k010403 respectively for meter test principle.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
The TrackRecord DMS is an accessory device to Home Diagnostics brand Smart
System blood glucose meters such as the TrueTrack (k030703) and Prestige IQ Smart
System (k010403) meters
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
see above associated devices
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
see above associated devices
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
see above associated devices
d. Detection limit:
see above associated devices
e. Analytical specificity:
see above associated devices
f. Assay cut-off:
see above associated devices
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
see above associated devices
b. Matrix comparison:
see above associated devices
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
see above associated devices
b. Clinical specificity:
see above associated devices
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
A Human Factors Study using 101 subjects was conducted to evaluate the
TrackRecord DMS with the following objectives:
1. To evaluate design and ease-of-use
2. To document participant feedback on the features / functions
3. To document Observer feedback on participant performance
4. To validate the user instructions are accurate and easy to follow
5. To evaluate participant ratings with respect to features / functions
6. To report any discrepancies (bugs/error messages) found during the
evaluation
These objectives address ease-of-use, instructions for use and product labeling
information. This study was comprehensive and included application tests
(feature/function tests) and questionnaire items. The subjects (Users) had
7 of 10

--- Page 8 ---
never used TrackRecord DMS and had no prior exposure to TrackRecord
DMS or its corresponding Instructions for Use.
Subjects were required to have a minimum of basic computer skills and feel
comfortable using a Windows-based Operating System. The study subjects
consisted of a mixture of healthcare professionals (multiple patient usage) and
persons representing home users (single patient usage).
Conclusions were based on the subjects’ ability to demonstrate by usage and
evaluation (rating) of features/functions (recorded as responses to 21
feature/function tests), their understanding of the applications of the DMS
software, their understanding of how to use the software (install, upload/enter
data and patient information, and generate/print reports), their comprehension
of the contents of the instructions for use, as well as user assessment of ease-
of-use based on a separate questionnaire. The 21 feature/function tests per
user were divided into 5 main categories:
1) Installation
2) User Interface / Owner’s Manual
3) Set up
4) Downloading Results
5) Patient Management / Reports
Performance of each User was recorded and evaluated by HDI study
administrators (Observers), who are familiar with proper use of TrackRecord
DMS. Observers rated each subject’s performance using four general
questions as follows:
1) Subject was successful in installing the DMS program?
2) Report printouts were accurate and complete?
3) Subject performed required functions satisfactorily?
4) Subject accessed “Help” and Technical Support contact information?
Data forms completed by both Users (study subjects) and Observers were
provided. Evaluation of the data was performed by an Expert Review Panel,
comprised of professionals with expertise in the areas of medical device
design, customer and technical support, product quality and quality assurance,
and clinical application of the product class.
4. Clinical cut-off:
see above associated devices
5. Expected values/Reference range:
see above associated devices
8 of 10

--- Page 9 ---
N. Instrument Name:
Home Diagnostics TrackRecord DMS - accessory to Home Diagnostics brand Smart
System blood glucose meters such as the TrueTrack (k030703) and Prestige IQ Smart
System (k010403) meters.
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Windows Operating System 98 SE Windows 2000 Professional, and Windows
XP Home and Professional. Minimum of 128 MB of RAM. 100-200 MB
minimum free hard disc space during installation, 100 MB after installation.
Video Monitor and adapter with at least 800x600 pixel screen resolution and 256
colors. The application is a Microsoft Access developed database.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
The TrackRecord DMS has single or multiple patient capabilities. The
application determines which patient owns the glucose meter so the results can be
properly assigned to that patient. The meter serial number is the link to the patient
record. A patient can have more than one meter serial number, but one meter
serial number cannot belong to more than one patient.
The TrueTrack meter can upload from zero to 365 glucose results, plus up to one
glucose control result.
The Prestige IQ meter can upload from zero to 365 glucose results, plus up to 12
glucose control results and up to 6 Standard Strip results.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Capillary whole blood
5. Calibration:
See k030703 and k010403
9 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
6. Quality Control:
See k030703 and k010403
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not Applicable
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10 of 10