
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE AND INSTRUMENT TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070346
B. Analyte:
Software for the LabPro Alert Data Management System Software, version 3.0 and
EX
MicroScan® instruments (e.g., WalkAway SI, autoSCAN-4)
C. Type of Test:
Software for AST reading and interpretation
D. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
E. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dade Behring LabPro Alert Software System
EX
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866. 1645
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
LON
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
G. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The Dade Behring LabPro Alert Software System is intended for use with
EX
the LabPro Alert Data Management System Software, version 3.0 and
EX
MicroScan® instruments (e.g., WalkAway SI, autoSCAN-4)
2. Indication(s) for Use:
The Alert Software system is indicated to notify the user of unusual
EX
conditions, or out-of-range results that may warrant further analysis or action,

--- Page 2 ---
and/or provide the user with the ability to change organism identification
and/or antibiotic susceptibility test interpretations.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
H. Device Description:
The Dade Behring LabPro Data Management System is a Windows based software
program used to manage data from MicroScan Instruments or manually entered
microbiology test results.
I. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BDXpert System resident on the EpiCenter System
2. Predicate K number(s):
k040099
3. Comparison with predicate:
DEVICE PREDICATE
A. Similarities
Dade Behring LabPro Alert Software BD Xpert System resident on the Epicenter
EX
System does not perform test analysis does not perform test analysis
Utilize additional information, such as Utilize additional information, such as
specimen source, to provide the user with a specimen source, to provide the user with a
more refined AST interpretation more refined AST interpretation
Provide similar added functionality and the Provide similar added functionality and the
ability to change AST interpretations ability to change AST interpretations
SIR and MIC reported SIR and MIC reported
J. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
K. Test Principle:
The Dade Behring LabPro Alert Software is a rule-based software application
EX
within the LabPro Data Management System Software. The Alert Software analyzes
EX
MicroScan microbial identification (ID) and antimicrobial agent susceptibility tests
(AST) or other parameters (e.g. patient ID, institution, source) against a series of rules.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	DEVICE			PREDICATE	
A. Similarities					
					
Dade Behring LabPro Alert Software
EX
System does not perform test analysis			BD Xpert System resident on the Epicenter
does not perform test analysis		
Utilize additional information, such as
specimen source, to provide the user with a
more refined AST interpretation			Utilize additional information, such as
specimen source, to provide the user with a
more refined AST interpretation		
Provide similar added functionality and the
ability to change AST interpretations			Provide similar added functionality and the
ability to change AST interpretations		
SIR and MIC reported			SIR and MIC reported		
					

--- Page 3 ---
When panels are read on a MicroScan Instrument, entered manually, or when editing
stored patient results, the software compares processed test results against rules and
conditions.
The LabPro Alert Software is provided to the MicroScan customers in a pre-
EX
configured condition with rules pre-defined based upon standard microbiology
references. These rules are defined in a table which list susceptibility and ID patterns
known to be unusual. Through customization the user may inactivate the pre-configured
rules, but the user cannot edit the pre-configured rules. Additionally, user-defined rules
may be added to the system to provide alert messages for results (e.g. previous isolation
of a resistant organism from a particular patient, address specific physicians, locations,
specimen sources or biochemical reactions.)
The LabPro Alert will add the capability to change organism ID, and/or generate
EX
AST interpretations based on defined parameters utilizing standard microbiology
references. The preconfigured alert rules with ID and AST actions are inactive upon
installation and must be activated by the user through customization.
L. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit (functional sensitivity:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
4 Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
M. Instrument Name:
Microscan instruments
N. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Not applicable
2. Software:
The firm provided their level of concern and the supporting rationale of
moderate. As recommended in the Guidance for the Content of Premarket
Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices, the following was
reviewed and found acceptable: Level of Concern, Software Description, Device
Hazard Analysis, Software Requirement Specification (SRS), Architectural
Design Chart, Software Design Specification, Traceablity, Analysis,
Development Life cycle, Verification and Validation Testing, Revision Level
History, Unresolved Anomalies (Defects), and Release Version Number.
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types: Yes __X___ or No ________
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Sample Identification:
Not applicable
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable
5. Assay Types:
Not applicable
6. Reaction Types:
Not applicable
7. Calibration:
Not applicable
8. Quality Control:
Not applicable
O. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “L. Performance Characteristics” Section Of The SE Determination
Decision Summary.
Not applicable
P. Conclusion:
The information contained within this submission is sufficient to meet the software
concerns as described in the Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for
Software contained in Medical Devices, and it is recommended that, from a software
standpoint, this device be considered substantially equivalent.