
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070649
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for glucose
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Specialty Medical Supplies (SMS)
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
SMS Glucose Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX, single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use (i.e. for external use only) by healthcare professionals and in the
home by people with diabetes mellitus to assess the performance of the Home Diagnostics
TrackEase Smart System and the TrueTrack Smart System Blood Glucose Monitors.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See intended use section above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-The-Counter Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Home Diagnostics TrackEase Smart System and the TrueTrack Smart System Blood
Glucose Meters.
I. Device Description:
The product is a one-level, aqueous liquid glucose control solution for use with the Home
Diagnostics TrackEase Smart System and the TrueTrack Smart System Blood Monitors. The
glucose control consists of a buffered aqueous solution of D-Glucose, a viscosity modifier,
preservatives, red dye, and other non-reactive ingredients. The device is non-sterile, non-
hazardous and contains no human or animal derived materials.
1

--- Page 2 ---
The product is packaged in a plastic dropper tipped bottle for easy application of the control
solution to the test strip and contains sufficient volume (3.6 mL) to run 75 tests. A red
coloration is included to aid the user to visually confirm application of the control.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Home Diagnostics TrueTrack Smart System Glucose Control Level 0
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k030703
3. Comparison with predicate:
Both devices contain D-Glucose and no human or animal derived materials.
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Target Population Professional and home Professional and home
use use
Matrix Buffered Aqueous Buffered Aqueous
Solution Solution
Container Plastic bottle with Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip dropper-tip
Analytes Glucose Glucose
Number of Levels 1 1
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A, Evaluation of the Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The D-Glucose used in this control is traceable to an in-house glucose preparation.
Values are assigned by repeat analysis using three different lots of test strips. The
mean and standard deviation are used to establish the acceptable range for each
control. A representative range of values for this product is 94 - 120 mg/dL.
Stability characteristics of the SMS Glucose Control were determined using real-time
studies. The unopened shelf-life is 24 months and the open vial stability is 90 days at
the recommended storage of 36 °F to 86 °F.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Target Population			Professional and home
use			Professional and home
use		
Matrix			Buffered Aqueous
Solution			Buffered Aqueous
Solution		
Container			Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip			Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip		
Analytes			Glucose			Glucose		
Number of Levels			1			1		

--- Page 3 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
3