
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070223
B. Purpose for Submission:
Notification of intent to manufacture and market a new device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for apolipoprotein AI, apolipoprotein B, cholesterol, HDL
cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyceride
D. Type of Test:
Quality control materials
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific LTD
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Proprietary - AuditTM MicroCVTM Lipids Linearity Set
Established Name – Quality Control Material
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJY
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
75
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use Below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids Linearity Set (Low) consists of five levels. Each
level contains the following analytes: Apolipoprotein A1, Apolipoprotein B,
Cholesterol, HDL Cholesterol, LDL Cholesterol and Triglyceride and may be
used for proficiency testing in interlaboratory surveys and to perform CLIA
directed calibration verification for these same analytes with similar reagents on
similar instrumentation in accordance with current CLIA-88 guidelines and
regulations.
In addition, Level A – E of this product may be used as unassayed quality control
material for these analytes or as an assayed quality control material for the
analyzer systems specified in the package insert. It is not intended to be used as an
assayed quality control material for any other analyzer systems.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Professional Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The labeling provides a chart that lists the target value and the corresponding
ranges by analyte and by instrument.
I. Device Description:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids Linearity Set (Low) is a human based,
lyophilized, five level set of QC material, with each level containing 6 analytes. It
is used to confirm the proper calibration, linear operating range, and reportable
range of Lipids methods for the analytes listed. Level A is near the lower limit
level and Level E has concentrations near the upper limit of instruments. Levels B
– D are related by linear dilution of Level A and Level E.
Each serum, plasma or whole blood donor unit used in the preparation of this
product was tested by FDA approved methods and found to be negative for
antibodies to HIV and HCV and non-reactive to HBsAg.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
1. Predicate device name(s):
Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042318
3. Comparison with predicate:
Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Characteristics Linearity Set (Low) Linearity Set
(New Device) (k042318)
Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Linearity Set (Low) is assayed Linearity Set is assayed quality control
quality control material consisting material consisting of human based
of Delipidized Human Serum. It is serum. It is intended to simulate human
intended to simulate human patient patient serum samples for the purpose of
serum samples for the purpose of monitoring the precision and to detect
monitoring the precision and to systematic analytical deviations of
detect systematic analytical laboratory testing procedures. This
deviations of laboratory testing product may also be used as unassayed
procedures. This product may also quality control material for these same
be used as unassayed quality analytes and may be used for proficiency
Intended Use
control material for these same testing in inter-laboratory surveys. In
analytes and may be used for addition, this product may also be used to
proficiency testing in inter- perform CLIA directed calibration
laboratory surveys. In addition, this verification for these same analytes with
product may also be used to similar reagents on similar
perform CLIA directed calibration instrumentation in accordance with
verification for these same analytes current CLIA-88 guidelines and
with similar reagents on similar regulations.
instrumentation in accordance with
current CLIA-88 guidelines and
regulations.
Number of
6 30
Analytes per vial
Number of levels
5 5
per set
Contents 5 x 2 mLs 5 x 5 mLs
Matrix Delipidized Human Serum Human Based Serum
Type of Analytes Lipids General Chemistry
Form Lyophilized Lyophilized
Stabilizers Sucrose None
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristics	Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids
Linearity Set (Low)
(New Device)	Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Linearity Set
(k042318)
Intended Use	Audit™ MicroCV™ Lipids
Linearity Set (Low) is assayed
quality control material consisting
of Delipidized Human Serum. It is
intended to simulate human patient
serum samples for the purpose of
monitoring the precision and to
detect systematic analytical
deviations of laboratory testing
procedures. This product may also
be used as unassayed quality
control material for these same
analytes and may be used for
proficiency testing in inter-
laboratory surveys. In addition, this
product may also be used to
perform CLIA directed calibration
verification for these same analytes
with similar reagents on similar
instrumentation in accordance with
current CLIA-88 guidelines and
regulations.	Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of human based
serum. It is intended to simulate human
patient serum samples for the purpose of
monitoring the precision and to detect
systematic analytical deviations of
laboratory testing procedures. This
product may also be used as unassayed
quality control material for these same
analytes and may be used for proficiency
testing in inter-laboratory surveys. In
addition, this product may also be used to
perform CLIA directed calibration
verification for these same analytes with
similar reagents on similar
instrumentation in accordance with
current CLIA-88 guidelines and
regulations.
Number of
Analytes per vial	6	30
Number of levels
per set	5	5
Contents	5 x 2 mLs	5 x 5 mLs
Matrix	Delipidized Human Serum	Human Based Serum
Type of Analytes	Lipids	General Chemistry
Form	Lyophilized	Lyophilized
Stabilizers	Sucrose	None

--- Page 4 ---
Preservatives Sorbitol Sorbitol
2 to 8º C 2 to 8º C
Storage
Until expiration date Until expiration date
Reconstituted
24 hours at 2 to 8º C 24 hours at 2 to 8º C
Stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP6-A: Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures: A
Statistical Approach
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: The base matrix is delipidized human serum albumin and
bovine serum albumin. This is the starting matrix for building the Low and
High Pools. Extracts of cholesterol and triglycerides, serum extracts of HDL
cholesterol complex (Apolipoprotein A, Cholesterol) and of LDL cholesterol
complex (Apolipoprotein B, Cholesterol, Triglycerides) are added to the high
level (Level E). For the Low Pool (Level A), all analytes are adjusted to be
within 5% to 10% of the lowest limit of measurability for their corresponding
assay. For the High Pool (Level E), all analytes are adjusted to be within 5%
to 10% of the highest limit of measurability for their corresponding assay.
Value Assignment: The sponsor states that each analyte is to be analyzed a
total of 30 times and the mean of the measurements is used as the target
concentration. Once a target concentration is established for Levels A – E,
these concentrations are plotted on the y-axis vs levels 1 – 5 on the x-axis. If
the r2 regression line is ≥ 0.95 the relationship between the levels is accepted
as linear.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Preservatives	Sorbitol	Sorbitol
Storage	2 to 8º C
Until expiration date	2 to 8º C
Until expiration date
Reconstituted
Stability	24 hours at 2 to 8º C	24 hours at 2 to 8º C

--- Page 5 ---
Opened Bottle Stability: The sponsor recommends that the reconstituted
product be stored at 2-80C and used within 24 hours of reconstitution.
Stability at 2-80C was demonstrated by real time studies. All analytes satisfied
the sponsor’s acceptance criteria of ± 15% deviation from analyte
concentration at day 0.
Closed Bottle Stability (Shelf Life): The sponsor’s shelf life stability claim is
two years from date of manufacture. . All analytes were heat stressed at 370C
for 20 days to predict two year stability when stored at 2-80C. The percent loss
is determined in comparison to Day Zero values and the product is considered
stable when the loss reported is < 15% loss or gain. All analytes satisfied the
sponsor’s acceptance criteria at 20 days of testing verifying the closed bottle
stability claim. Real time studies are ongoing.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
A table is provided in the labeling that lists the target value and the corresponding
ranges by analyte and by instrument.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6