
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070361
B. Purpose for Submission:
Premarket notification
C. Measurand:
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
D. Type of Test:
Direct detection of MRSA from anterior nares specimens using specific chromogenic
substrates and selective antifungal/antibiotics mixture
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MRSASelect
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
CFR 866.1700
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JSO: Culture media, Antimicrobial susceptibility test, excluding Mueller Hinton
Agar
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
MRSASelect is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for the

--- Page 2 ---
qualitative detection of nasal colonization of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) to aid in the prevention and control of MRSA infections in
healthcare settings. The test can be performed on anterior nare specimens from
patients and healthcare workers to screen for MRSA colonization. MRSASelect
is not intended to diagnose MRSA infection nor to guide or monitor treatment of
infection.
2. Indication(s) for use:
MRSASelect is indicated for the detection and direct identification of MRSA.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
MRSASelect is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for the
qualitative detection of MRSA from anterior nares. Selective
antifungal/antibiotics mixture is incorporated in the medium to inhibit the growth
of yeasts, Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria except MRSA.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BBL CHROMagar MRSA
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042812

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For detection of MRSA For detection of MRSA
Reporting MRSA MRSA
Reading Manual Manual
Test methodology selective media selective media
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Inoculum Direct anterior nares and Direct nasal swabs
Indirect (saline)
Incubation 18 – 24 hours at 35 – 37°C 24 – 48 hours at 35 - 37°C
Antibiotic used Antibiotics cefoxitin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI M100-S17 Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing;
CLSI M29-A2 Protection of Laboratory Workers from Occupational Acquired
Infections; CLSI M40-A Quality Control of Microbiological Transport Systems;
Approved Standard
L. Test Principle:
MRSASelect is a selective medium for the detection and direct identification of
MRSA. The selectivity of this medium is based on the presence of an
antibiotic/antifungal mixture and an organized salt concentration that inhibits the
growth of yeast and the majority of Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria with
the exception of methicillin-resistant staphylococci. Identification is based on the
cleavage of a chromogenic substrate by a specific enzymatic activity of
Staphylococcus aureus, leading to a strong pink coloration of the Staphylococcus
aureus colonies.
Within 18-24 hours incubation time:
• Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus produce small pink colonies on
MRSASelect.
• Coagulase negative methicillin-resistant staphylococci do not metabolize the
chromogenic substrate and appear as colorless or white colonies (possibly
light pink).
• Methicillin sensitive staphylococci (MSS) are inhibited

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			For detection of MRSA			For detection of MRSA		
Reporting			MRSA			MRSA		
Reading			Manual			Manual		
Test methodology			selective media			selective media		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Inoculum			Direct anterior nares and
Indirect (saline)			Direct nasal swabs		
Incubation			18 – 24 hours at 35 – 37°C			24 – 48 hours at 35 - 37°C		
Antibiotic used			Antibiotics			cefoxitin		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility study was done at four sites. Testing was done at three sites in
triplicates for three days with three lots. Duplicates were performed for three
days with three lots at the fourth site. MRSA, MSSA and S. epidermidis were
used. Reproducibility was >95%.
An additional 35 strains of bacteria and yeast were tested on three lots. No lot
to lot variation was observed.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Negative Control
S. aureus ATCC 25923 at a concentration of 104 – 105 CFU/plate.
Positive Control
S. aureus ATCC 43300 at a concentration of 103 – 104 CFU/plate.
Test Strain Expected Results after 24 hours at 35-37°C
S. aureus ATCC 25923 No Growth
S. aureus ATCC 43300 Growth – small pink colonies
There were a total of 56 QC results from the three sites tested on more than
three lots. The testing followed the recommendations of the QC strains listed
in the package insert and there were no product failures.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
To confirm the level of detection of MRSASelect, 31 strains of MRSA were
plated on the media with a dilution at 103 CFU of a 0.5 MacFarland bacterial
suspension. All strains grew on MRSASelect as small pink colonies after 24
hours incubation time.
To demonstrate the ability of MRSASelect to suppress the growth of
organisms other than MRSA, 30 strains of methicillin sensitive

[Table 1 on page 4]
Test Strain	Expected Results after 24 hours at 35-37°C
S. aureus ATCC 25923	No Growth
S. aureus ATCC 43300	Growth – small pink colonies

--- Page 5 ---
Staphylococcus aureus, and 20 strains of coagulase negative methicillin
sensitive Staphylococci were tested by plating a 0.5 MacFarland bacterial
suspension on the medium. Pink colonies were not observed on MRSASelect
after 24-hour incubation time.
Interference Study
Two commonly used nasal sprays were evaluated for the potential interference
on the performance of the MRSASelect. Three MRSA, two MSSA, two
methicillin resistant coagulase negative Staph and others (K. pneumoniae and
C. albicans) were tested on phenylephrine hydrochloride (1%) and
oxymetazoline hydrochloride (0.05%). Bacterial growth was inhibited on the
MRSASelect and the nonselective blood agar control medium. A limitation
has been added to the package insert.
Four MRSA, three MSSA and one BORSA were used to test the interference
effect of human blood, mucus and mucin (hog gastric) on MRSASelect. No
significant interference was observed.
Four commonly used transport media were tested on the growth of MRSA on
MRSASelect. There were no shifts of the bacterial count on either
MRSASelect or TSA with 5% blood. The transport media did not impact the
viability of MRSA.
Cross Reactivity Study
A Cross reactivity study was performed using 91 Coagulase negative
staphylococci and 30 other organisms (Gram negative rods, Strep pyogenes,
N. meningitides, N. gonorrhoeae and Enterococci). Of the Coagulase
negative staphylococci, there were thirteen S. epidermidis with a false
negative rate of 14.3% and one S. capitis that provided weakly pinkish
colonies. A limitation has been included in the package insert that S.
epidermidis may develop a faint pink coloration. Of the gram negative
organisms, there were seven strains that showed pinkish coloration. The
reaction was reduced with the reduction of the inoculum size (from 108 CFU
to 105 CFU). A limitation has been added to caution the user of the potential
color that might be observed with selected Gram negative rods.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:

--- Page 6 ---
The MRSASelect™ culture media was evaluated at two clinical sites which
included testing of 1772 anterior nares specimens. The recovery of MRSA on
MRSASelect was compared to routine culture, which was defined as isolation
of staphylococci on Trypticase Soy Agar with 5% blood, with identification
confirmed by coagulase and oxacillin susceptibility. An additional 1241
samples were tested at a third site against a chromogenic medium,
CHROMagar.
The optimum incubation time for MRSASelect™ culture media is 24 hours.
At 24 hours, the culture media is visually inspected for small pink colonies
which are considered as MRSA. Non-MRSA organisms appear as white or
colorless colonies.
Percent agreement of MRSASelect™ for each method when compared to
culture and another chromogenic media is presented in the table below.
Percent Agreement of MRSASelect™
Method MRSA Non-MRSA
MRSASelect vs. routine culture 95.8% (227/237) 97.9% (1502/1535)
MRSASelect vs. a commercial chromogenic
94.3% (297/315) 99.1% (2674/2698)
medium
Direct versus Indirect Inoculation
A total of 91 samples were analyzed to demonstrate that the direct and indirect
inoculation procedures are equivalent. The percent agreement was 98%.
Retrospective Study
A retrospective study was evaluated at one site with 99 MRSA positive nasal
swabs. At 24 hours, there were six that did not grow on the MRSASelect™.
The no growth rate for MRSA at 24 hrs was 6.0% (6/99). The percent of
agreement was 94% (93/99) when comparing with the routine culture, and
96% (91/95) with a commercial chromogenic medium.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:

[Table 1 on page 6]
Method	MRSA	Non-MRSA
MRSASelect vs. routine culture	95.8% (227/237)	97.9% (1502/1535)
MRSASelect vs. a commercial chromogenic
medium	94.3% (297/315)	99.1% (2674/2698)

--- Page 7 ---
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of MRSA infections has increased dramatically in hospitals and
importantly the carriage rate of MRSA is rising in the community. Recent studies
suggest that in the population at large this prevalence ranges between 25 – 30%.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirement of 21CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.