
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K070334
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Hemoglobin S
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
R&D Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
R&D Sickle QC Hematology Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGM, Control Hemoglobin
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
R&D Sickle QC Hematology Control is intended to be used as a sickle cell
control in testing for the presence of Hemoglobin S in solubility tests.
2. Indication(s) for use:
R&D Sickle QC Hematology Control is intended to be used as a sickle cell
control in testing for the presence of Hemoglobin S in solubility tests.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
R&D Sickle QC Hematology Control is composed of human erythrocytes suspended
in a plasma-like fluid with preservatives, supplied as Control 1 (Negative) and
Control 2 (Positive). Each vial contains 2.5 mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Streck Sickle-Chex
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K013316
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
R&D Sickle QC Hematology Streck Sickle-Chex
Control
Intended use Used as a sickle cell control to Same
test for the presence of
Hemoglobin S in solubility
tests.
Product Description A positive and negative A positive and negative whole
control composed of human blood control to test for the
erythrocytes for solubility tests presence of Hemoglobin S in
used to detect Hemoglobin S. solubility tests and
hemoglobin electrophoresis.
Reagent composition Human erythrocytes Stabilized human red blood
suspended in plasma like fluid cells in a preservative
with preservatives. medium.
Storage 2-8oC 2-10oC
Closed Vial Stability 6 months Same
Open Vial Stability 100 days Same
Parameters Hemoglobin/Hemoglobin S Same
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
It is established laboratory practice to use a stable control to monitor the performance
of diagnostic tests. This control is composed of stable material that provides a mean
of monitoring the presence of sickling hemoglobin S in solubility tests. It is sampled
in the same manner as the patient specimen.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			R&D Sickle QC Hematology
Control			Streck Sickle-Chex		
Intended use			Used as a sickle cell control to
test for the presence of
Hemoglobin S in solubility
tests.			Same		
Product Description			A positive and negative
control composed of human
erythrocytes for solubility tests
used to detect Hemoglobin S.			A positive and negative whole
blood control to test for the
presence of Hemoglobin S in
solubility tests and
hemoglobin electrophoresis.		
Reagent composition			Human erythrocytes
suspended in plasma like fluid
with preservatives.			Stabilized human red blood
cells in a preservative
medium.		
Storage			2-8oC			2-10oC		
Closed Vial Stability			6 months			Same		
Open Vial Stability			100 days			Same		
Parameters			Hemoglobin/Hemoglobin S			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Open and closed vial stability testing was performed on three lots of negative
and positive controls (2.5 mL volumes). Vials were stored at 2-8oC for closed
vial storage and 15-30o for open vial storage. All controls performed as
expected.
Open Vial Stability: 100 days
Closed Vial Stability: 6 months
Value assignment: Human packed red cells are received from vendor and
tested once if certification is provide and twice by two different technicians if
certification is not provided. A commercial sickle cell test kit is used for this
Hemoglobin S testing, and units are processed accordingly to achieve the
Control 1 (negative) and Control 2 (positive) product.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Sickle QC Hematology Control is designed to be handled in the same manner as a
patient specimen. The positive control will appear as a cloudy turbid suspension
as descried in the reagent test kit instruction for use. The negative control will
appear as a nearly transparent solution as described in the reagent test kit
instruction for use.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5

--- Page 6 ---
6