
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K070747
B. Purpose for Submission:
New specimen matrix
C. Measurand:
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) antigen
D. Type of Test:
Dipstick immunoassay for the rapid, qualitative detection of RSV antigen
E. Applicant:
Quidel Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
QuickVue® RSV Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21CFR 866.3480; Respiratory syncytial virus serological
reagents
2. Classification: Class: I
3. Product code: GQG, Antigens, CF (including CF controls), respiratory syncytial
virus.
4. Panel: 83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick immunoassay, which allows for the rapid,
qualitative detection of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) antigen (viral fusion
protein) directly from nasopharyngeal swab, nasopharyngeal aspirate, or
nasal/nasopharyngeal wash specimens for symptomatic pediatric patients (eighteen
years of age and younger). The test is intended for use as an aid in the diagnosis of
acute respiratory syncytial viral infections. It is recommended that negative test
1

--- Page 2 ---
results be confirmed by cell culture. Negative results do not preclude RSV infection
and it is recommended that they not be used as the sole basis for treatment or other
management decisions. The test is intended for professional and laboratory use.
2. Indication(s) for use: Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick immunoassay that allows the capture and visual
detection of RSV antigen (viral fusion protein). The patient specimen is placed in the
Extraction Tube containing the Extraction Reagent, enhancing the exposure of the
viral fusion protein antigen. After extraction, the Test Strip is placed in the
Extraction Tube where the RSV fusion proteins in the specimen will react with the
reagents in the Test Strip.
If the extracted specimen contains RSV antigens, a pink-to-red Test Line, along with
a blue procedural Control Line, will appear on the Test Strip indicating a positive
result. If RSV type antigens are not present, or are present at very low levels, only a
blue procedural Control Line will appear.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Viral cell culture, Quidel QuickVue
®
RSV Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s): k061008
Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Table 1: Summary of Device Similarities and Differences
QuickVue® RSV test QuickVue® RSV test
Features
(Proposed) (K061008)
Intended Use The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick
immunoassay which allows for the immunoassay which allows for the rapid,
rapid, qualitative detection of qualitative detection of respiratory
syncytial virus (RSV) antigen (viral
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
fusion protein) directly from
antigen (viral fusion protein) directly
nasopharyngeal swab or nasopharyngeal
from nasopharyngeal swab,
aspirate specimens for symptomatic
nasopharyngeal aspirate, or
pediatric patients (eighteen years of age
nasal/nasopharyngeal wash
and younger). The test is intended for
specimens for symptomatic pediatric
use as an aid in the diagnosis of acute
patients (eighteen years of age and respiratory syncytial viral infections. It
younger). The test is intended for is recommended that negative test results
use as an aid in the diagnosis of acute be confirmed by cell culture. Negative
respiratory syncytial viral infections. results do not preclude RSV infection
It is recommended that negative test and it is recommended that they not be
used as the sole basis for treatment or
results be confirmed by cell culture.
other management decisions. The test is
Negative results do not preclude RSV
intended for professional and laboratory
infection and it is recommended that
use.
they not be used as the sole basis for
treatment or other management
decisions. The test is intended for
professional and laboratory use.
Specimen Types Nasopharyngeal swab, Nasopharyngeal swab and
Nasopharyngeal aspirate, and Nasopharyngeal aspirate
Nasal/nasopharyngeal wash
Extract / Elute Extraction reagent used for Extraction reagent used for
swab/aspirate/wash swab/aspirate
Read Result Time 15 Minutes 15 Minutes
Format Lateral-flow immunoassay dipstick Lateral-flow immunoassay dipstick
Control Features Procedural Control Line Procedural Control Line
Clearing of background Clearing of background
External Controls Positive RSV swab Positive RSV swab
RSV negative swab coated with RSV negative swab coated with
Streptococcus C antigen Streptococcus C antigen
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Features		QuickVue® RSV test			QuickVue® RSV test	
		(Proposed)			(K061008)	
Intended Use	The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick
immunoassay which allows for the
rapid, qualitative detection of
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
antigen (viral fusion protein) directly
from nasopharyngeal swab,
nasopharyngeal aspirate, or
nasal/nasopharyngeal wash
specimens for symptomatic pediatric
patients (eighteen years of age and
younger). The test is intended for
use as an aid in the diagnosis of acute
respiratory syncytial viral infections.
It is recommended that negative test
results be confirmed by cell culture.
Negative results do not preclude RSV
infection and it is recommended that
they not be used as the sole basis for
treatment or other management
decisions. The test is intended for
professional and laboratory use.			The QuickVue RSV test is a dipstick
immunoassay which allows for the rapid,
qualitative detection of respiratory
syncytial virus (RSV) antigen (viral
fusion protein) directly from
nasopharyngeal swab or nasopharyngeal
aspirate specimens for symptomatic
pediatric patients (eighteen years of age
and younger). The test is intended for
use as an aid in the diagnosis of acute
respiratory syncytial viral infections. It
is recommended that negative test results
be confirmed by cell culture. Negative
results do not preclude RSV infection
and it is recommended that they not be
used as the sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions. The test is
intended for professional and laboratory
use.		
Specimen Types	Nasopharyngeal swab,
Nasopharyngeal aspirate, and
Nasal/nasopharyngeal wash			Nasopharyngeal swab and
Nasopharyngeal aspirate		
Extract / Elute	Extraction reagent used for
swab/aspirate/wash			Extraction reagent used for
swab/aspirate		
Read Result Time	15 Minutes			15 Minutes		
Format	Lateral-flow immunoassay dipstick			Lateral-flow immunoassay dipstick		
Control Features	Procedural Control Line
Clearing of background			Procedural Control Line
Clearing of background		
External Controls	Positive RSV swab
RSV negative swab coated with
Streptococcus C antigen			Positive RSV swab
RSV negative swab coated with
Streptococcus C antigen		

--- Page 4 ---
Lateral flow immunocapture assay
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with gold standard:
See clinical studies.
b. Matrix comparison :
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies :
Quidel performed the following studies to establish the sensitivity and specificity
of the QuickVue RSV Test with nasal/nasopharyngeal specimens:
During the 2006/2007 flu season, the performance of the QuickVue RSV test was
4

--- Page 5 ---
compared to viral cell culture methods and DFA in a multi-center clinical study
during the RSV season in the United States. This study was performed by
professional health care personnel at two pediatric clinics and two hospital
emergency departments in various geographical regions within the United States.
In this multi-center, point-of-care (POC) field trial, nasal/nasopharyngeal wash
specimens were collected from two hundred eighty-nine (289) patients. All
clinical samples were collected from symptomatic patients less than six years of
age. 60% were male and 40% were female.
On-site testing of a portion of nasal/nasopharyngeal wash was performed by
physician office personnel with the QuickVue RSV test. All samples were freshly
collected and tested within one hour. No samples were frozen prior to testing.
The remaining sample was placed in viral transport media and transported to a
reference laboratory for culture, where cells were inoculated with the specimen,
incubated at 36°C for 48 hours, and then removed from culture and tested for
RSV by direct fluorescent antibody (DFA) staining.
a. Clinical Sensitivity and specificity:
Results with Fresh Nasal/Nasopharyngeal Wash Specimens
Nasal/nasopharyngeal wash specimens from two hundred eighty-nine (289)
patients were tested in QuickVue RSV and in cell culture. The QuickVue RSV
test correctly identified 83% (100/121) RSV culture-positive specimens and 90%
(152/168) RSV culture-negative specimens. These results are shown in Table 3.
Table 3
QuickVue RSV Nasal/Nasopharyngeal Wash Results versus Culture (<6 years of
age)
100/121 = 83%
RSV Culture Sensitivity =
+ - (95% C.I. 75-88%)
152/168 = 90%
QV Pos 100 16
Specificity = (95% C.I. 85-94%)
QV Neg 21 152
PPV = 100/116 = 86%
NPV = 152/173 = 88%
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	+	-
QV Pos	100	16
QV Neg	21	152

--- Page 6 ---
Clinical sensitivity: 83% (100/121
(95% CI 75-88%)
Clinical specificity: 90%. (152/168)
(95% CI 85-94%)
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6