
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070546
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for hemoglobin (A1C, A1, F, Total and Total Glycated)
D. Type of Test:
Not Applicable (N/A)
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Lyphochek® Diabetes Control
Lyphochek® Diabetes Control (MiniPak)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
GGM
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Lyphochek® Diabetes Control is intended for use an as assayed quality control
material to monitor the precision of laboratory testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For professional use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The specific instruments are listed in the package insert.
I. Device Description:
This is a lyophilized product containing two distinct levels of assayed values prepared
from human whole blood. It also contains preservatives and stabilizers.
The labeling for this material states “Each whole blood donor unit used to
manufacture this control was tested by FDA accepted methods and found non-
reactive for Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg), antibody to Hepatitis C (HCV)
and antibody to HIV-1/HIV 2.”
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Lyphochek® Diabetes Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k862186
3. Comparison with predicate:
The submission is seeking to add total hemoglobin to the Lyphochek Diabetes
Control.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Lyphochek Diabetes Control is Same.
intended for the use as an assayed
quality control material to monitor
the precision of laboratory testing
procedures for the analytes listed
in the package insert.
Matrix Human Whole Blood Same
Preservatives Contains Preservatives Same
Form Lyophilized Same
Open Vial 7 days at 2-8° C Same
Claim
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analytes Hemoglobin A1C Hemoglobin AIC
Hemoglobin A1 Hemoglobin A1
Hemoglobin F Hemoglobin F
Total Glycated Hemoglobin Total Glycated Hemoglobin
Total Hemoglobin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
No standards or guidance documents were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Lyphochek Diabetes Control is
intended for the use as an assayed
quality control material to monitor
the precision of laboratory testing
procedures for the analytes listed
in the package insert.			Same.		
Matrix			Human Whole Blood			Same		
Preservatives			Contains Preservatives			Same		
Form			Lyophilized			Same		
Open Vial
Claim			7 days at 2-8° C			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analytes			Hemoglobin A1C
Hemoglobin A1
Hemoglobin F
Total Glycated Hemoglobin
Total Hemoglobin			Hemoglobin AIC
Hemoglobin A1
Hemoglobin F
Total Glycated Hemoglobin		

--- Page 4 ---
Value assignment for the Lyphochek® Diabetes Control Material was
conducted by assaying 20 replicates per level per analyte over a period of 10
days using various lots of reagents. The values listed in the package insert are
the average values from three reference laboratories specific for the product
lot. The ranges vary and are set at +/- 20% of the average values.
Open vial stability study time is defined to be at least 20% longer than the
claimed open vial stability for the product and is determined at a minimum of
three time points (T , T and T ). Controls are assayed to ensure the
zero final final+20%
accuracy and precision of the testing methods. The sponsors’ failure criteria
are defined as the T being +/- 10% of the T . The sponsors open vial
final zero
stability claim is 7 days when stored tightly capped at 2-8 C.
The sponsor conducted accelerated stability testing on pilot lots at elevated
temperatures (i.e. 41°C, 47°C and 56°C) in order to observe changes in
product performance more rapidly than would be seen under normal storage
conditions of 2-8°C. Controls are assayed to ensure the accuracy and precision
of the testing methods at several time points for each temperature to predict
shelf life using a stability model with activation energy of the 20 –kCal/mol or
Arrhenius Model predictions. The sponsors’ shelf life claim is 3 years when
stored tightly capped at 2-8°C.
The sponsors real time stability testing is determined by storing the product
under the recommended storage conditions (2-8°C) for the life of the product.
These studies are conducted on production lots and are long-term studies.
Several vials of each level are tested at each time point and the results of the
real time samples are compared to the results of reference vials store at -70°C.
Failure is assumed to have taken place when the product’s analyte
concentration has changed by greater than or equal to the established
acceptance recovery criteria. Real time stability studies are ongoing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The package insert contains a table with the mean value and acceptable ranges for
each analyte/instrument. Also contained in the package insert is the
recommendation by the manufacturer that each laboratory establish its own mean
value and acceptable range.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5