
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K070660
B. Purpose for Submission:
Marketing in the U.S.
C. Analyte:
Human Hemoglobin
D. Type of Test:
Fecal Occult Blood
E. Applicant:
Alfa Scientific Designs, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
INSTANT-VIEW® Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Rapid Test
Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Rapid Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
864.6550 Occult blood test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
KHE
4. Panel:
Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The INSTANT-VIEW® Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Rapid Test is a qualitative
immunoassay for the detection of Fecal Occult Blood by non-professional, lay
individuals as an over-the-counter product for home use. Measurement of
FOB is a useful as an aid to detect blood in stool as found in a number of
gastrointestinal disorders, e.g. diverticulitis, colitis, polyps, and colorectal
cancer. It is intended for over-the-counter use.
The Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Rapid Test is a qualitative immunoassay for
the detection of Fecal Occult Blood by non-professional, lay individuals as an
over-the-counter product for home use. Measurement of FOB is a useful as an
aid to detect blood in stool as found in a number of gastrointestinal disorders,
e.g. diverticulitis, colitis, polyps, and colorectal cancer. It is intended for over-
the-counter use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
N/A
3. Special condition for use statement(s):

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 5
N/A
4. Special instrument Requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The INSTANT-VIEW® Fecal Occult Blood (FOB) Rapid Test is a one-step
lateral flow chromatographic immunoassay. The test strip is contained in a
cassette and consists of a burgundy-colored conjugate pad containing colloidal
gold coupled with mouse anti-human hemoglobin monoclonal antibodies and
a nitrocellulose membrane containing a test line (T line) and a control line (C
line). The T line is coated with anti-human hemoglobin antibodies, and the C
line is coated with goat anti-mouse IgG antibodies.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Beckman Coulter, Inc. Hemoccult® Fecal Occult Blood Test
2. Predicate K number(s):
K880499
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Qualitative detection of Same
occult blood in feces
Sample Type Feces Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Detection method Immunochromatographic Chemical guaiac based
assay assay
Analyte Human hemoglobin Hemoglobin
Users Healthcare professionals Healthcare professional use
and lay persons (OTC)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
L. Test Principle:
This test kit is one-step lateral flow chromatographic immunoassay. The test consists
of three burgundy colored conjugate pads containing mouse anti-hHb antibodies
conjugated with colloidal gold and a nitrocellulose membrane containing the test line.
The human hemoglobin line appears as a visible burgundy line if the concentration of
hHb in the specimen at or above 50 ng/ml.
A fecal sample is collected and prepared for testing in a sample collection tube
containing extraction buffer. The extracted sample is added directly to the test device
and migrates by capillary action through the test strip. If the level of hemoglobin in
the fecal specimen is at or above the cutoff concentration, the T line appears as a
visible burgundy line. If the level of hemoglobin in the fecal specimen is below the
cutoff, no T line develops.

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Qualitative detection of
occult blood in feces			Same		
Sample Type			Feces			Same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Detection method			Immunochromatographic
assay			Chemical guaiac based
assay		
Analyte			Human hemoglobin			Hemoglobin		
Users			Healthcare professionals
and lay persons (OTC)			Healthcare professional use		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 5
The control line is a internal procedural control. Goat anti-mouse IgG is used for the
“Control Line” coating. When the gold conjugate reagent flows to the “Control Line”
area, the goat anti-mouse IgG reacts to form a burgundy colored band regardless of
the presence of hemoglobin.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Human stool extraction samples were spiked with hHb at the
following concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng/ml. 4
samples were tested at each concentration with three lots of the Alfa-
Scientific FOBT. Samples with concentrations below 50 ng/ml hHb
tested negative with the candidate device while samples at and above
50 ng/ml tested positive.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Internal Control: Procedural controls are included in the test device.
A magenta line appearing the control region in considered as internal
procedural control. It confirms sufficient specimen volume,
adequate membrane wicking and correct procedural technique.
External Control: Controls are not provided with this kit. It is
recommended that positive and negative controls be performed to
verify proper test performance.
d. Detection limit:
The minimal detection limit is 50 ng/ml of hHb in buffer or 50 μg
hHb/g in stool.
e. Analytical specificity:
Positive and negative stool samples were spiked with the following
substances: Beef, chicken, fish (meat extract), horse, goat, pig,
rabbit, and sheep hemoglobin; horseradish peroxidase; red radish;
raw turnip; cauliflower; broccoli; parsnip; cantaloupe; Vitamin C;
and iron. Addition of these substances had no effect on the test
results.
f. Assay cut-off:
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5
a. Forty human stool extraction samples were spiked with hHb at
the following concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng/ml.
The candidate device was compared to the predicate at each of the
concentrations and agreed 100% of the time with the predicate and
the expected results.
b. The candidate device was evaluated at three physician office
laboratories and one medical laboratory by personnel with diverse
educational backgrounds and work experience. One hundred
human stool extraction samples were spiked with hHb at the
following concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng/ml. (20 at
each concentration) Results obtained from three POL sites agreed
97.7% with the expected results and results from the medical
laboratory agree 99% with the expected results. Overall agreement
was 98%.
c. The candidate device was evaluated in a consumer study of 120
lay individuals with various educational levels. 120 hHB spiked
phosphate buffer saline (PBS) samples at the following
concentrations: 0, 37.5, 62.5 and 500 ng/ml, were tested.
Consumer results agreed 95% with the expected results, while
professional results agreed 100% with the expected results.
b. Matrix comparison:
3. Clinical studies: N/A
a. Clinical sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off: N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Negative
N. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 5