
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k070810
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device
C. Measurand:
Theophylline
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Biokit S.A.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ARCHITECT i Theophylline Reagents and Calibrators
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3880, Theophylline test system
21 CFR § 862.3200, Calibrator, Drug Specific
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
LGS, Theophylline test system
DLJ, Calibrator, Drug Specific
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay is an in vitro chemiluminescent
microparticle immunoassay (CMIA) for the quantitative measurement of
theophylline in human serum or plasma on the ARCHITECT i System with STAT
protocol capability. Theophylline is used in the treatment of bronchospasm
associated with bronchial asthma, chronic bronchitis and pulmonary emphysema.
The measurements obtained are used in the diagnosis and treatment of
1

--- Page 2 ---
theophylline overdose or in monitoring levels of theophylline to help ensure
appropriate therapy.
The ARCHITECT i Theophylline Calibrators are for the calibration of the
ARCHITECT i System with STAT protocol capability when used for the
quantitative determination of theophylline in human serum and plasma.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See intended use above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
ARCHITECT Instrument System platforms
I. Device Description:
The ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay is a one-step STAT immunoassay for the
quantitative determination of theophylline in human serum or plasma using CMIA
technology, with flexible assay protocols, referred to as Chemiflex. Sample, anti-
theophylline coated paramagnetic microparticles, and theophylline acridinium-labeled
conjugate are combined to create a reaction mixture. The antitheophylline coated
microparticles bind to theophylline present in the sample and to the theophylline
acridinium-labeled conjugate. After washing, pre-trigger and trigger solutions are
added to the reaction mixture. The resulting chemiluminescent reaction is measured
as relative light units (RLUs). An indirect relationship exists between the amount of
theophylline in the sample and the RLUs detected by the ARCHITECT i System
optics.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AxSYM Theophylline II assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k953016
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
- Both assays are Immunoassays.
- The device and the predicate have similar Methodology: while the device uses
the Chemiluminescent Microparticle Immunoassay (CMIA), the predicate device
uses Fluorescence Polarization Immunoassay (FPIA).
- Both assays have similar Intended Use
- The measurements obtained are used in the diagnosis and treatment of
theophylline overdose or in monitoring levels of theophylline to ensure
appropriate therapy.
- Both assays are intended to be used in Clinical Laboratories with Competitive
Immunoassay Protocol.
- Both assays interpret results with Standard Curve. Both assays have a
Measurement range between 0.82 µg/mL and 40 µg/mL.
- Internal Reference Calibrators are manufactured gravimetrically using USP
Reference Standard Theophylline. The ARCHITECT i Theophylline Calibrators
are matched to the internal Reference Calibrators.
- Calibrator levels: both have 6 different calibrator levels.
Differences
- The device, the ARCHITECT i Theophylline, is intended to be run in the
ARCHITECT i System and the predicate, the AxSYM Theophylline II, is
intended to be run in the AxSYM System.
- The device has a 2 components reagent and the predicate has a 3 components
reagent. The composition and vial volumes are also different.
- Specimen Type: both assays can use serum samples. They differ in the plasma
tube types. The device: Serum or Plasma (collected in lithium heparin, potassium
EDTA, sodium citrate, sodium fluoride/potassium oxalate and sodium heparin
tubes). The predicate device: Serum or Plasma (collected in sodium heparin,
citrate, EDTA or oxalate collection tubes)
- Calibrator Matrix: Device: normal human serum, Predicate: Recalcified human
plasma
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1) Points to Consider Guidance Document on Assayed and Unassayed Quality
Control Material; Draft
2) CLSI EP5-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement
Methods
3) CLSI EP6-A, Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement
Procedures: A Statistical Approach
4) CLSI EP7-A, Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry
5) CLSI EP9-A2, Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples
6) CLSI EP17-A, Protocols for Determination of Limits of Detection and Limits of
Quantitation
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities		
	- Both assays are Immunoassays.	
		
	- The device and the predicate have similar Methodology: while the device uses	
	the Chemiluminescent Microparticle Immunoassay (CMIA), the predicate device	
	uses Fluorescence Polarization Immunoassay (FPIA).	
	- Both assays have similar Intended Use	
	- The measurements obtained are used in the diagnosis and treatment of	
	theophylline overdose or in monitoring levels of theophylline to ensure	
	appropriate therapy.	
	- Both assays are intended to be used in Clinical Laboratories with Competitive	
	Immunoassay Protocol.	
	- Both assays interpret results with Standard Curve. Both assays have a	
	Measurement range between 0.82 µg/mL and 40 µg/mL.	
		
	- Internal Reference Calibrators are manufactured gravimetrically using USP	
	Reference Standard Theophylline. The ARCHITECT i Theophylline Calibrators	
	are matched to the internal Reference Calibrators.	
	- Calibrator levels: both have 6 different calibrator levels.	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences		
	- The device, the ARCHITECT i Theophylline, is intended to be run in the	
	ARCHITECT i System and the predicate, the AxSYM Theophylline II, is	
	intended to be run in the AxSYM System.	
	- The device has a 2 components reagent and the predicate has a 3 components	
	reagent. The composition and vial volumes are also different.	
	- Specimen Type: both assays can use serum samples. They differ in the plasma	
	tube types. The device: Serum or Plasma (collected in lithium heparin, potassium	
	EDTA, sodium citrate, sodium fluoride/potassium oxalate and sodium heparin	
	tubes). The predicate device: Serum or Plasma (collected in sodium heparin,	
	citrate, EDTA or oxalate collection tubes)	
		
	- Calibrator Matrix: Device: normal human serum, Predicate: Recalcified human	
	plasma	

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
The ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay is a one-step STAT immunoassay for the
quantitative determination of theophylline in human serum or plasma using CMIA
technology, with flexible assay protocols, referred to as Chemiflex. Sample, anti-
theophylline coated paramagnetic microparticles, and theophylline acridinium-labeled
conjugate are combined to create a reaction mixture. The antitheophylline coated
microparticles bind to theophylline present in the sample and to the theophylline
acridinium-labeled conjugate. After washing, pre-trigger and trigger solutions are
added to the reaction mixture. The resulting chemiluminescent reaction is measured
as relative light units (RLUs). An indirect relationship exists between the amount of
theophylline in the sample and the RLUs detected by the ARCHITECT i System
optics.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A study was conducted to determine the total precision of the ARCHITECT i
Theophylline assay. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion was a total CV of
≤10%. Precision was performed with the ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay
based on the CLSI EP5-A2. Two ARCHITECT i Systems were used along
with 2 lots of reagents and 2 lots of calibrators. Each reagent lot used a single
calibration curve along the study. The assay was run twice a day for 20 days
using 3 Multiconstituent Controls (MCC) and 2 serum (panel) levels in
replicates of 2. The 2 human serum based samples were prepared by adding
theophylline concentrations into a pool of human sera at final concentrations
targeted at 7 and 26 μg/mL. The following tables show the mean of the
reported theophylline concentration for each control and panel. Also the
values for the total, within run, between run and between day %CV were
calculated.
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
A study was conducted to evaluate the recovery of dilutions of the
ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion was a
recovery of ±10%. The study was performed with the ARCHITECT
iTheophylline assay using CLSI EP6-A. Five pooled serum samples, (frozen),
and Calibrator F were diluted manually with the ARCHITECT iTheophylline
Calibrator A. Each specimen sample was diluted to have 11 concentration
levels. Each sample was diluted using the ARCHITECT iTheophylline
Calibrator A in different proportions. The recovery of assay was evaluated by
comparing observed versus expected values across the expected range.
5

--- Page 6 ---
A recovery study was conducted to verify that theophylline supplemented into
human serum can be accurately recovered by the ARCHITECT iTheophylline
assay. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion for the mean recovery is 100% +/-
10%. Five pooled serum samples (frozen) were supplemented with known
theophylline concentrations and tested in duplicates using the ARCHITECT
iTheophylline assay. The 5 human serum sample pools used for the study had
endogenous levels of theophylline ranging from 1.2 to 10.8 μg/mL. Additional
theophylline pools were prepared and added to the sample pools above. Target
6

--- Page 7 ---
values of the concentrations of these pools were 5. 10. 20 and 30 μg/mL.
The results from the two studies support an assay range claim is 0.05 μg/mL
(the limit of detection) to 40 μg/mL. Specimens with a theophylline value
exceeding 40.0 µg/mL are reported as "> 40.0 µg/mL" and may be diluted
with the Manual Dilution Procedure as it is described in the ARCHITECT i
Theophylline Reagent Package Insert.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The ARCHITECT i Theophylline Calibrators are for the calibration of the
ARCHITECT i System with STAT protocol capability when used for the
quantitative determination of theophylline in human serum or plasma. Each i
Theophylline calibrator kit contains 6 bottles of ARCHITECT i Theophylline
Calibrators (4.0 mL each). Calibrator materials A-F contain normal human
serum. Calibrator materials B-F contain theophylline with sodium azide as a
preservative:
Cal A 0 µg/mL
Cal B 2.5 µg/mL
Cal C 5.0 µg/mL
Cal D 10.0 µg/mL
Cal E 20.0 µg/mL
Cal F 40.0 µg/mL
7

--- Page 8 ---
Internal Reference Calibrators are manufactured gravimetrically using
purified synthetic Theophylline from the US Pharmacopeia (USP) Reference
Standard Theophylline (Ref. 1653004). The ARCHITECT i Theophylline
Calibrators are matched to the Internal Reference Calibrators with a maximum
allowed error of ±1.5 % when compared to the reference material.
The sponsor’s accelerated stability studies support a stability of 13.66 months,
as samples up to this time are within the sponsor’s acceptance criteria of
±15% of the assigned value. The sponsor will claim a stability of 9 months.
d. Detection limit:
The sponsor determined the limit of detection for the assays using CLSI
EP17-A, using proportions of false positives less than 5% and false negatives
less than 5%. The limit of detection and limit of the blank were performed on
2 instruments and one lot of reagents and calibrators were used for each
instrument. A panel of 4 samples with a low theophylline concentration and 1
sample with 0 μg/mL was used. The samples with theophylline were prepared
by diluting calibrator B (2.5 µg/mL) into calibrator A (0 µg/mL) to achieve
concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, 0.8, and 1.0 µg/mL. Three runs were performed for
each reagent lot. Each run consisted of 20 replicates of Calibrator A (0
µg/mL) and 5 replicates of each panel member. A total of 60 replicates of
Calibrator A and 15 replicates of each panel member were analyzed. Results
are summarized below:
Results obtained are based on the highest obtained value with the two lots.
e. Analytical specificity:
A study was conducted to evaluate the potential cross-reactivity of the
8

--- Page 9 ---
ARCHITECT iTheophylline assay when tested with structurally similar
compounds as:
Caffeine
8-Chlorotheophylline
1,3-Dimethyl uric acid
Dyphylline
1-Methyl uric acid
1-Methylxanthine
Theobromine
Paraxanthine
3-Methylxanthine
A pool of sera containing undetectable theophylline was split into 3 different
groups. One was spiked with theophylline to reach a target concentration of 7
μg/mL, the second group was spiked with theophylline to reach a target
concentration of 28 μg/mL and the third group was not spiked with
theophylline.
The three different groups of sera were used to spike the following possible
interferants: Caffeine, 8-Chlorotheophylline, 1,3-Dimethyl uric acid,
Dyphylline, 1-Methyl uric acid, 1-Methylxanthine, Theobromine,
Paraxanthine, 3-Methylxanthine. Therapeutic interferants were dissolved at
concentrations 20 times greater than the desired testing concentrations.
Therapeutic concentrates were spiked into the 3 samples above to prepare the
test sample. An equal volume of the interferant diluent was spiked to the
samples to prepare the control sample. Each sample was tested in replicates of
three using the ARCHITECT iTheophylline assay. The testing was based on
guidance from the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, document
CLSI Protocol EP7-A. The % recovery specification is a mean % recovery of
100% ± 10%. The specificity of the ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay is
designed to have a cross-reactivity concentration less than 0.82 μg/mL when
tested with the compounds in the following table. The interferants of 1-
Methylxanthine and 3-Methylxanthine did not meet specification
requirements and are addressed in the reagent package insert.
9

--- Page 10 ---
A second study was conducted to evaluate the potential interference from
triglycerides, hemoglobin, bilirubin, protein (low and high level), HAMA and
Rheumatoid Factor (RF) in the ARCHITECT i Theophylline assay.
Interference testing was performed on the Architect i System using one lot of
reagents. Testing was performed based on guidance from the Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute document CLSI Protocol EP7-A2. Five human
serum samples with theophylline concentrations targeted at 2.5, 5, 10, 20 and
35 μg/mL were used to prepare the interfering panel. These human serum
samples were spiked with the interferant for the test sample and interferant
diluent was spiked into the samples to prepare the control sample. The tables
in the result section identify the final interferant concentration. All samples
were analyzed in three replicates. No influence from the endogenous
interferants listed below was observed during the study. Results are
summarized below:
10

--- Page 11 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A study was conducted to evaluate the correlation of the ARCHITECT
iTheophylline Reagent on the ARCHITECT i System and another
commercially available diagnostic kit. The method comparison was performed
by testing samples on the ARCHITECT i System and on the AxSYM based
on CLSI EP9-A2. One hundred ninety-eight (198) serum samples covering
the possible concentration range from 1.4 to 39.5 with the ARCHITECT
iTheophylline assay and from 1.4 to 37.6 with the commercially available
diagnostic kit were analyzed.
Passing & Bablock regression analysis gave the following relationship:
Device = 0.9917(Predicate) + 0.0836; r = 0.9938.
11

--- Page 12 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
A study was conducted to evaluate the use of different anticoagulants (K-
EDTA, Na-Citrate, Na-Fluoride/K-Oxalate, Na-Heparin, and Li-Heparin) and
determine which tubes can be used when determining the theophylline level of
a patient. Serum tubes without additives were used as the control.
One hundred twenty (120) fresh (less than 24 hours from the time of draw)
blood from 20 different donors, were analyzed in triplicates with one lot of
Theophylline reagent. Each of the 20 sets of serum/plasma tubes were spiked
with theophylline at 10 different concentrations: 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 12.5, 15, 20,
25, 30, and 35 µg/mL. Two tubes of each collecting tube were used for each
spiking level. The sponsor’s acceptance criterion was the recovery compared
to the serum tube to be within ±10%. Results are summarized below:
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values for the ARCHITECT i Theophylline have been established
based on bibliographic references.
The statement presented in the package insert is as follows:
Strong correlations have been shown between theophylline serum levels for both
therapeutic and toxic effects. In most patients, theophylline serum concentrations
of 10 to 20 μg/mL effectively suppress chronic asthmatic and other
12

--- Page 13 ---
bronchospastic symptoms.(13-16) Serum concentrations of 5 to 10 μg/mL
theophylline reportedly control apneic spells in neonates without causing apparent
side effects. (13-16) Peak concentrations above 20 μg/mL are often associated with
toxicity. (13-16) Adverse effects associated with serum concentrations above 20
μg/mL include nausea, headache, diarrhea, and at higher levels, vomiting,
gastrointestinal bleeding, seizures and cardiac arrhythmias. (4)
4. Jacobs MH, Senior RM, Kessler G. Clinical experience with theophylline.
Relationships between dosage, serum concentration, and toxicity. JAMA
1976;235(18):1983-6.
13. Hendeles L, Weinberger M. Theophylline: therapeutic use and serum
concentration monitoring. In: Taylor WJ, Finn AL, editors. Individualizing Drug
Therapy: Practical Applications of Drug Monitoring New York, NY: Gross,
Townsend, Frank; 1981:Vol 1, 31–65.
15. Bierman CW, Williams PV. Therapeutic monitoring of theophylline: rationale
and current status. Clin Pharmacokinet 1989;17(6):377–84.
16. Glynn-Barnhart A, Hill M, Szefler SJ. Sustained release theophylline
preparations: practical recommendations for prescribing and therapeutic drug
monitoring. Drugs 1988;35:711–26.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
13