
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k071779
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for urine protein
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable - calibrator
E. Applicant:
Horiba ABX
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ABX PENTRA Urine Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX, Calibrator, Multi-analyte mixture
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ABX PENTRA Urine Cal is a calibrator for use in the calibration of the
quantitative method: ABX PENTRA Urinary Proteins CP on Horiba ABX
PENTRA 400 clinical chemistry analyzer.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with the ABX Pentra 400
I. Device Description:
The ABX PENTRA Urine Cal is a single level human and sheep based, aqueous,
buffered solution, containing protein, albumin, a1-microglobulin and
Immunoglobulin G constituents.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s) :
Roche C.F.A.S.Proteins in Urine
2. Predicate K number(s):
k062319
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Roche CFAS urine cal ABX PENTRA urine cal
Matrix Liquid, ready to use Same
Instrument Roche analyzers ABX PENTRA 400
Constituents Total protein, albumin, Total protein assayed
urine/csf protein, IGG Albumin, a1 microglobulin
and IGG unassayed
Closed stability 2-8oC until exp. date 12 mos. at 2-8oC
Open stability 4 weeks at 2-8oC same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Item			Roche CFAS urine cal			ABX PENTRA urine cal	
Matrix			Liquid, ready to use			Same		
Instrument			Roche analyzers			ABX PENTRA 400		
Constituents			Total protein, albumin,
urine/csf protein, IGG			Total protein assayed
Albumin, a1 microglobulin
and IGG unassayed		
Closed stability			2-8oC until exp. date			12 mos. at 2-8oC		
Open stability			4 weeks at 2-8oC			same		

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA/CDRH Guidance for Industry: Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The calibrator is traceable to NIST SRM 927c
Shelf life stability was tested over a total period of 19 months. The recovery
in protein content of the calibrator was assayed for 3 lots periodically over
that period. The calibrator was stored within the defined temperature limits of
2-8oC. Results met the defined acceptance criteria and supported the claim for
12 month shelf life stability between 2-8oC.
Open vial stability was tested on 3 lots over a total period of 4 weeks. During
this period, the open calibrator was stored at 4oC. Results met the defined
acceptance criteria and supported the claim for 4 week open stability between
2-8oC.
The value assignment process consists of assaying new lots of calibrator on 6
ABX PENTRA 400 analyzers over 5 days. If the percent deviation between
lowest and highest mean is less than 10%, then the target value is determined
by the median of all results yielded from all analyzers.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4