
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k071712
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Lactoferrin, fecal
D. Type of Test:
Lateral flow immunochromatographic assay
E. Applicant:
TechLab, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
TechLab® LEUKO EZ VUE™
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
DEG Lactoferrin, Class I 21 CFR 866.5570 Immunology 82
antigen, antiserum, Lactoferrin
control immunological test
system
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The LEUKO EZ VUE™ test is an immunochromatographic test for the
qualitative detection of elevated levels of fecal lactoferrin, a marker for fecal
leukocytes and an indicator of intestinal inflammation. The LEUKO EZ VUE™
test detects lactoferrin in liquid, semi-solid, and solid fecal specimens. A positive
test result indicates an increased level of fecal lactoferrin and warrants additional
testing.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Timer
I. Device Description:
The test kit consists of membrane cassettes, diluent, positive control, disposable
plastic pipettes (flared section = 50 μL), and disposable sample preparation devices
(tubes and filter tips).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
a. TechLab® LEUKO-TEST
b. Microscopy using methylene blue or Gram stain – exempt laboratory method

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
DEG Lactoferrin,
antigen, antiserum,
control			Class I			21 CFR 866.5570
Lactoferrin
immunological test
system			Immunology 82		

--- Page 2 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
a. k931241
b. Not applicable
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
TechLab LEUKO EZ TechLab LEUKO-
VUE TEST
Intended Use The detection of Same
lactoferrin in fecal
specimens
Analyte measured Fecal lactoferrin Same
Capture antigen Polyclonal rabbit anti- Same
lactoferrin antibodies
Test matrix Stool Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Indications for Use An indicator of intestinal Not stated
inflammation
Method Lateral flow Latex agglutination
immunochromatography
Internal (procedural) Stripe containing mouse Not applicable
control anti-IgG antibodies
Solid phase Flow membrane cassette Latex particles
Conjugate Colloidal gold Not applicable
Result interpretation Positive: two red lines are Positive: visible 1+ to 4+
visible: single red lines at agglutination
both the test and the Negative: no visible
control portions of the agglutination
Results Window
Negative: no line at the
test portion and a single
red line at the control
portion
Invalid: control line is not
present or if no lines
appear on the completed
membrane cassette
Controls Positive only Positive and negative
Differences
Item Device Predicate
TechLab LEUKO EZ Laboratory microscopy
VUE
Intended use The detection of Detection of leukocytes

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			TechLab LEUKO EZ
VUE			TechLab LEUKO-
TEST		
Intended Use			The detection of
lactoferrin in fecal
specimens			Same		
Analyte measured			Fecal lactoferrin			Same		
Capture antigen			Polyclonal rabbit anti-
lactoferrin antibodies			Same		
Test matrix			Stool			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for Use			An indicator of intestinal
inflammation			Not stated		
Method			Lateral flow
immunochromatography			Latex agglutination		
Internal (procedural)
control			Stripe containing mouse
anti-IgG antibodies			Not applicable		
Solid phase			Flow membrane cassette			Latex particles		
Conjugate			Colloidal gold			Not applicable		
Result interpretation			Positive: two red lines are
visible: single red lines at
both the test and the
control portions of the
Results Window
Negative: no line at the
test portion and a single
red line at the control
portion
Invalid: control line is not
present or if no lines
appear on the completed
membrane cassette			Positive: visible 1+ to 4+
agglutination
Negative: no visible
agglutination		
Controls			Positive only			Positive and negative		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			TechLab LEUKO EZ
VUE			Laboratory microscopy		
Intended use			The detection of			Detection of leukocytes		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
lactoferrin in fecal in fecal smears
specimens
Method Lateral flow Manual microscopic
immunochromatography observation of stained
fecal smears to detect
leukocytes
Stain for leukocyte Not applicable Methylene blue or Gram
detection and stain
morphology
Sample stability for the Stable when stored as Samples must be run
assay directed within minutes as some
enteric pathogens
produce toxins that may
lyse leukocytes and
degrade lactoferrin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Statistical Guidance on Reporting Results from Studies Evaluating Diagnostic Tests:
Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Reviewers”; CLSI EP7-A, Interference Testing
in Clinical Chemistry.
L. Test Principle:
The membrane cassette contains two stripes of immobilized antibodies. One stripe
contains rabbit anti-lactoferrin conjugated directly to gold particles. The other,
representing a control stripe, contains mouse anti-IgG antibodies. The diluted sample
and gold conjugate migrate by capillary action when the sample is added to the well.
If elevated lactoferrin is present in the sample, gold conjugate-lactoferrin complexes
form and are captured by the immobilized anti-lactoferrin antibodies in the stripe.
The lactoferrin-conjugate-antibody complexes appear as a single read line in the test
portion of the Results Window. In the control stripe, conjugate binds to the
immobilized anti-IgG antibodies, demonstrating correct migration of the sample and
conjugate along the membrane. The conjugate-anti-IgG antibodies appear as a single
read line in the control portion of the Results Window.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra-assay:
Nineteen human fecal specimens were analyzed a total of six times in the
same assay run with a single lot of the test. The specimens included 6
samples with values close to the cut-off for positive/negative. For the
analysis, a single 1:50 dilution of each fecal specimen was prepared in kit
diluent as described in the package insert. All positive specimens remained
positive and all negative specimens remained negative.
Inter-assay:
Twenty human fecal specimens were analyzed once a day using separate

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			lactoferrin in fecal
specimens			in fecal smears		
Method			Lateral flow
immunochromatography			Manual microscopic
observation of stained
fecal smears to detect
leukocytes		
Stain for leukocyte
detection and
morphology			Not applicable			Methylene blue or Gram
stain		
Sample stability for the
assay			Stable when stored as
directed			Samples must be run
within minutes as some
enteric pathogens
produce toxins that may
lyse leukocytes and
degrade lactoferrin		

--- Page 4 ---
specimen dilutions done fresh each day during a 3-day period using a single
lot of the test. The specimens included 6 samples close to the assay cut-off.
All positive specimens remained positive and all negative specimens remained
negative.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
TechLab does not claim that any assay components are traceable to a standard
reference material. The expiration date of the kit is assigned based on the
shortest expiration date of any of the components. Expiration dating was set
at 9 months. Stability testing is still being evaluated and may be extended.
d. Detection limit/analytical sensitivity:
The analytical sensitivity was determined using serial twofold dilutions of
highly purified human lactoferrin. Dilutions were tested on 3 kit lots. For all
3 lots, the test was consistently positive at a concentration of 128 ng/mL
lactoferrin and negative at a concentration of 64 ng/mL.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity:
Various intestinal organisms were examined for cross-reactivity. For the
analysis, broth cultures mixed 1:50 with 1X diluent were evaluated. Broth
cultures at log phase containing ≥108 bacteria per mL were used. No cross-
reactivity was observed with any of the following organisms:
Interfering substances:
Two positive and 2 negative samples were spiked with potentially interfering
substances and 7 replicates of each were tested. The substances had no effect

--- Page 5 ---
on test results when present in feces in the concentrations indicated:
Substance Concentration
Mucin 5% w/v
Serum containing lipid (fecal fats) 5% v/v
Mylanta® 5% v/v
Pepto-Bismol® 5% v/v
Imodium® 5% v/v
Kaopectate® 5% v/v
Bilirubin 5% w/v
Hemoglobin 10 mg/g feces
f. Assay cut-off:
Specimens with values ≥128 ng/mL should show a positive result with the
test. Results are reported as positive or negative.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Correlation to the predicate was made by testing 375 samples.
LEUKO-TEST
+ - Total
LEUKO + 98 55 153
EZ VUE - 7 215 222
Total 105 270 375
95% Confidence
Intervals
Positive percent agreement 93% (98/105) 86% - 97%
Negative percent agreement 80% (215/270) 74% - 84%
Overall agreement 83% (313/375) 80% - 86%
b. Matrix comparison:
Both assays test fecal specimens.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not done
b. Clinical specificity:
Not done
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
See assay cut-off
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected result in the normal population is negative (below the assay cut-off).
The prevalence of a positive test result using the LEUKO EZ VUE test in clinical
investigations ranged between 27% - 53%. The prevalence will vary from

[Table 1 on page 5]
Substance	Concentration
Mucin	5% w/v
Serum containing lipid (fecal fats)	5% v/v
Mylanta®	5% v/v
Pepto-Bismol®	5% v/v
Imodium®	5% v/v
Kaopectate®	5% v/v
Bilirubin	5% w/v
Hemoglobin	10 mg/g feces

[Table 2 on page 5]
		LEUKO-TEST		
		+	-	Total
LEUKO
EZ VUE	+	98	55	153
	-	7	215	222
	Total	105	270	375

--- Page 6 ---
location to location and hospitals may experience rates lower or higher than those
observed at the sites used in the studies. The prevalence will vary depending on
the incidence of outbreaks due to various enteropathies.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.