
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k071980
B. Purpose for Submission:
Add additional analytes to existing multi-analyte calibrator and controls
C. Measurand:
New analytes added: Hemopexin (HPX), immunoglobulin IgG subclasses (IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4), and retinol binding protein
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator and controls for an automated turbidimetric immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dade Behring Dimension Vista® Protein 1 Calibrator (Prot1 Cal) and Dimension
Vista® Protein 1 Control L, M, and H (Prot1 control L, M, or H)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
CFR 862.1150 Calibrator
CFR 862.1660 Quality control materials (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Calibrator: Class II
Controls: Class I
3. Product code:
JIX Calibrator, multi-analyte mixture
JJY Multi-analyte controls, all kinds (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
PROT1 Cal is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the Dimension
Vista® System for: α -acid glycoprotein, α antitrypsin, β -microglobulin, C3
1 1- 2
complement, C4 complement, ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin, hemopexin,
homocysteine, IgA, IgE, IgG, IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4),
IgM, prealbumin, retinol binding protein, soluble transferrin receptor, and
transferrin.
PROT1 CON L is an assayed, low level, intra-laboratory quality control for
assessment of precision and analytical bias on the Dimension Vista® System in
the quantitative determination of: α -acid glycoprotein, α antitrypsin, C3
1 1-
complement, C4 complement, ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin, hemopexin,
homocysteine, IgA, IgE, IgG, IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4),
IgM, prealbumin, retinol binding protein, soluble transferrin receptor, and
transferrin.
PROT1 CON M and H are assayed, mid- and high level, intra-laboratory quality

--- Page 2 ---
controls for assessment of precision and analytical bias on the Dimension Vista®
System in the quantitative determination of: α -acid glycoprotein, α antitrypsin,
1 1-
β -microglobulin, C3 complement, C4 complement, ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin,
2
hemopexin, homocysteine, IgA, IgE, IgG, IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3,
and IgG4), IgM, prealbumin, retinol binding protein, soluble transferrin
receptor, and transferrin.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as the Intended Uses
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dade Behring Dimension Vista System
I. Device Description:
PROT1 CAL is a multi-analyte, liquid, human serum based product containing: α -
1
acid glycoprotein, α antitrypsin, β -microglobulin, C3 complement, C4 complement,
1- 2
ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin, hemopexin, homocysteine, IgA, IgE, IgG, IgG
subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4), IgM, prealbumin, retinol binding
protein, soluble transferrin receptor, and transferrin. It is ready to use and contains
sodium azide (<0.1%) as a preservative.
PROT1 CON L, M, or H are multi-analyte, liquid, human serum based product
containing: α -acid glycoprotein, α antitrypsin, β -microglobulin (PROT1 CON M
1 1- 2
and H only), C3 complement, C4 complement, ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin,
hemopexin, homocysteine, IgA, IgE, IgG, IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and
IgG4), IgM, prealbumin, retinol binding protein, soluble transferrin receptor, and
transferrin. These reagents are ready to use and contain sodium azide (<0.1%) as a
preservative.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension Vista® Protein 1 Calibrator and Protein 1 Control L, M, and H
2. Predicate K number(s):
k063663
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use 1) Calibration of the Same
Dimension Vista System 2)
Assessment of precision
and analytical bias
Matrix Liquid, human serum Same
Levels 1 calibrator level Same
3 control levels
Preservative Sodium azide Same
Source material Homocysteine – purified Same
S-adenosylhomocysteine;
All other analytes – human

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended Use			1) Calibration of the
Dimension Vista System 2)
Assessment of precision
and analytical bias			Same	
Matrix			Liquid, human serum			Same	
Levels			1 calibrator level
3 control levels			Same	
Preservative			Sodium azide			Same	
Source material			Homocysteine – purified
S-adenosylhomocysteine;
All other analytes – human			Same	

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Constituents Addition of hemopexin, α -acid glycoprotein, α
1 1-
IgG subclasses (IgG1, antitrypsin, β -
2
IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4), microglobulin, C3
IgM, retinol binding complement, C4
protein to predicate list complement,
of analytes. ceruloplasmin,
haptoglobin,
homocysteine, IgA, IgE,
IgG, IgM, prealbumin,
soluble transferrin
receptor, and transferrin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability of Added Constituents:
Analyte Traceability to:
IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and ERM-DA470 (CRM 470)
IgG4)
Hemopexin, retinol binding protein Highly purified protein
Stability:
The calibrators and controls follow the same stability protocol. Products are
stored at 2-8° C and the stability studies are conducted for 24 months using 3
vials and 3 replicates per vial. Testing cycles are 0, 12, 18, and 24 months.
Additional stress testing is done at 6 months after storing the product at 37° C
for 2 weeks then testing at 1 and 2 weeks. Open/punctured vial testing is
performed at the mid-point of the shelf life study period. Vials are stored on
board the instrument and contents are tested in duplicate on days 0, 4, 7, 9, 11
and 14. Acceptance criteria must be met.
Value assignment:
The calibrator master lot values for IgG 1-4 are assigned versus ERM-DA 470
(CR 470) using independently determined values for subclasses compared to

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Constituents			Addition of hemopexin,
IgG subclasses (IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4),
IgM, retinol binding
protein to predicate list
of analytes.			α -acid glycoprotein, α
1 1-
antitrypsin, β -
2
microglobulin, C3
complement, C4
complement,
ceruloplasmin,
haptoglobin,
homocysteine, IgA, IgE,
IgG, IgM, prealbumin,
soluble transferrin
receptor, and transferrin	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Analyte	Traceability to:
IgG subclasses (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and
IgG4)	ERM-DA470 (CRM 470)
Hemopexin, retinol binding protein	Highly purified protein

--- Page 4 ---
total IgG value of the reference material. The master calibrator lot values for
hemopexin and retinol binding protein are assigned versus highly purified
protein preparations. Commercial lot values are then assigned versus Master
Calibrators with 3 reference curves, 4 runs, 3 vials, 4 replicates per vial tested
on two nephelometric systems for a total of 144 values. The sum of IgG 1-4
must be ± 20% of the total IgG.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.