
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k071913
B. Purpose for Submission:
New allergen
C. Measurand:
Allergen specific IgE
D. Type of Test:
Fluoroenzymeimmunoassay
E. Applicant:
Phadia AB
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ImmunoCAP Allergen f338, Scallop
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.5750 Radioallergosorbent (RAST) Immunological Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
DHB System, Test, Radioallergosorbent (RAST) Immunological
4. Panel:
Immunology 82
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
ImmunoCAP Specific IgE is an in vitro quantitative assay for the measurement of
allergen specific IgE in human serum or plasma. It is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid in the clinical diagnosis of IgE mediated allergic
disorders in conjunction with other clinical findings, and is to be used in clinical
laboratories, as well as physician office laboratories. ImmunoCAP Allergen f338,
Scallop is to be used with the ImmunoCAP Instrument System, ImmunoCAP 100,
ImmunoCAP 250, and ImmunoCAP 1000.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
ImmunoCAP Specific IgE is to be used with the instrument ImmunoCAP 100,
ImmunoCAP 250 and ImmunoCAP 1000.
I. Device Description:
The ImmunoCAP system is a fully integrated and automated system for the
determination of specific IgE in human blood serum or plasma. It is comprised of
instrument ImmunoCAP 100, ImmunoCAP 250 and ImmunoCAP 1000, test system
modules (comprising general, test and method specific reagents), as well as

--- Page 2 ---
instrument and data management software. The ImmunoCAP reagents include
ImmunoCAP Specific IgE Conjugate, ImmunoCAP Specific IgE Curve Control,
ImmunoCAP Specific IgE Calibrators, Specific IgE Anti-IgE ImmunoCAP, Allergen
ImmunoCAP carriers (Single and Multiple), ImmunoCAP development solution and
stop solution.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
UniCAP® Specific IgE Assay
2. Predicate K number(s):
k051218
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Indications for Use ImmunoCAP Specific IgE is Same
an in vitro quantitative assay
for the measurement of
allergen specific IgE in
human serum or plasma. It is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid in
the clinical diagnosis of IgE
mediated allergic disorders
in conjunction with other
clinical findings, and is to be
used in clinical laboratories,
as well as physician office
laboratories.
Number of calibrators six Same
Sample matrix Serum and plasma Same
Antibody β-Galactosidase-anti-IgE Same
(mouse monoclonal
antibody)
Basic principle Fluroenzyme immunoassay Same
Sample volume 40 μL Same
Process time 1 hour 45 minutes Same
Incubation temperature 37°C Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Modification Addition of new allergen Absence of allergenf338,
f338, Scallop Scallop
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Evaluation Methods and Analytical Performance Characteristics of Immunological
Assays for Human Immunoglobulin E (IgE) Antibodies of Defined Allergen
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for Use			ImmunoCAP Specific IgE is
an in vitro quantitative assay
for the measurement of
allergen specific IgE in
human serum or plasma. It is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid in
the clinical diagnosis of IgE
mediated allergic disorders
in conjunction with other
clinical findings, and is to be
used in clinical laboratories,
as well as physician office
laboratories.			Same		
Number of calibrators			six			Same		
Sample matrix			Serum and plasma			Same		
Antibody			β-Galactosidase-anti-IgE
(mouse monoclonal
antibody)			Same		
Basic principle			Fluroenzyme immunoassay			Same		
Sample volume			40 μL			Same		
Process time			1 hour 45 minutes			Same		
Incubation temperature			37°C			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Modification			Addition of new allergen
f338, Scallop			Absence of allergenf338,
Scallop		

--- Page 3 ---
Specificities; Approved Guideline (1997) I/LA 20-A)
Radioallergosorbent Test (RAST) Methods for Allergen-Specific Immunoglobulin E
(IgE) 510(k)s; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA
L. Test Principle:
The allergen of interest, covalently coupled to ImmunoCAP, reacts with the specific
IgE in the patient sample. After washing away non-specific IgE, enzyme -labeled
antibodies against IgE are added to form a complex. After incubation, unbound
enzyme-anti-IgE is washed away and the bound complex is then incubated with a
developing agent. After stopping the reaction, the fluorescence of the eluate is
measured. The higher the response value the more specific IgE is present in the
specimen. To evaluate the test results, the response for the patient samples are
transformed to concentrations with the use of a calibration curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
To demonstrate lot to lot reproducibility of ImmunoCAP Allergen f338,
Scallop, three different lots were tested using two positive and one negative
control samples. For this study, values below 0.35kU /L were reported as
A
negative. The samples were tested in duplicates in one assay run. Mean
values were calculated. Specifications were as follows:
Positive sample concentration quotient: 0.7-1.3.
Negative sample response quotient: (compared with calibrator 0.35kU /L)
A
n/0.35:<1.0.
Results showed specifications are fulfilled; i.e. quotient between lots based on
uptake of positive sample is within 0.7-1.3 and the response of the low sample
is below calibrator 0.35kU /L.
A
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not provided
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
24 months real time stability (at recommended storage temperature of 2-8°C)
of ImmunoCAP Allergen f338, Scallop, was demonstrated by the following:
Three lots of ImmunoCAP Allergen were stored at 2-8°C. Two positive and
one negative control samples (stored human plasma) were tested in duplicates
in one assay at different monthly intervals. For this study values below 0.35
kU /L were reported as negative. The mean concentrations or response values
A
were calculated for each sample and occasion. Specifications were:
Positive sample concentration quotient: 0.7-1.3
Negative sample response quotient (compared with calibrator 0.35 kU /L):
A
(n/0.35) <1.0.
Results of the real time stability study showed the ImmunoCAP Allergen
f338, Scallop is stable for at least 24 months from date of manufacture when
stored at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Not provided
e. Analytical specificity:
Not provided
f. Assay cut-off:
Not provided.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable for this kind of submission
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity/Clinical specificity:
Studies to demonstrate the following were provided:
1. Presence of specific IgE to scallop specific allergens in the
serum/plasma samples of patients with suspected scallop and/or food
intolerance.
2. Absence of specific IgE to scallop in the samples from healthy, non-
sensitized donors with no reported scallop intolerance
Two hundred and fourteen clinical samples collected in Japan from patients
with the suspicion of scallop intolerance were tested for IgE mediated scallop
intolerance. Fifty-four patients (Ch1) had a history of allergic reaction after
ingestion of scallop. The reactions were urticaria, edema, respiratory and
gastro-intestinal symptoms and anaphylaxis. The remaining 160 patients
(Ch2) had a history of symptoms with a suspicion of food allergy, where
scallop was not specified. Samples from 103 healthy, non-sensitized donors
with no reported symptoms of scallop or food intolerance were also tested.
Samples were tested, using ImmunoCAP Specific IgE assay, with three lots of
ImmunoCAP Allergen f338, Scallop in one replicate on one occasion. For
this study values below 0.35 kU /L were reported as negative. Specifications
A
were as follows:
Samples from healthy, non-sensitized donors (Neg) with no suspicion of IgE
mediated allergy to scallop should have undetectable levels (<0.35 kU /L) of
A
scallop specific IgE.
Samples from patients with suspected IgE mediated allergy should have a rate
of detectable IgE antibodies to scallop in line with currently published reports.
Results showed that 44% of Ch1 had a reported detectable level of scallop
specific IgE antibodies, 39% of Ch2 had a reported detectable level of scallop
specific IgE antibodies and 100% of the Neg had no reported detectable level
of scallop specific IgE antibodies. These figures are consistent with literature
reports (ref.1-9) of patients who had self reported symptoms of food allergy
(see figure 1 for distribution of three patient groups tested for scallop specific
IgE antibodies).
4

--- Page 5 ---
5

--- Page 6 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Inhibition studies were performed to verify immunological specificity of
scallop specific IgE antibody binding. One lot of ImmunoCAP Allergen f338,
Scallop was tested on the ImmunoCAP 100, Testing materials included
scallop-specific allergen raw material extract, a positive sample with specific
IgE antibodies to scallop allergen, a negative sample below 0.35 kU /L and
A
negative buffer control: PBS with 0,02% NaN .
3
Background response level (blank, 100% inhibition) was determined by using
90 μL of the negative sample premixed with 90 μL of buffer. The maximum
uptake response level (positive, % inhibition) was established by using 90 μL
of the positive sample premixed with 90 μL buffer. The allergen extract was
serially diluted with buffer in a 1/10-dilution sequence. The initial allergen
extract dilution factor was dependent on the concentration of the allergen
extract at hand. Subsequent dilutions were then adjusted to the 1/10-dilution
sequence. To show inhibition, 90 μL of positive sample was premixed with
varying dilutions of allergen extract (inhibitor). The mixture was incubated in
a sample tube at 2-8°C for 16-24 hours before adding to the ImmunoCAP
Allergen f338, Scallop and was then analyzed with ImmunoCAP 100
according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The testing was performed in
duplicates in one assay run.
The inhibition test was evaluated with inhibition values in %, calculated
according to the formula below:
Inhibition % at inhibition dilution factor x =
Response – Response X 100
(Positive 0% inhibition) (x)
Response – Response
(Positive 0% inhibition) (Blank 100% inhibition)
Any negative inhibition %-values are shown as 0 % - inhibition.
The inhibition study results are presented below.
Inhibitor Dilution factor Response Inhibition (%)
(1/x, w/v) (RU)
blank (100%) - 28 100
positive (0%) - 841 0
scallop allergen extract 10 000 648 24
scallop allergen extract 1000 199 79
scallop allergen extract 100 107 90
scallop allergen extract 10 59 96
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Inhibitor	Dilution factor
(1/x, w/v)	Response
(RU)	Inhibition (%)
blank (100%)	-	28	100
positive (0%)	-	841	0
scallop allergen extract	10 000	648	24
scallop allergen extract	1000	199	79
scallop allergen extract	100	107	90
scallop allergen extract	10	59	96

--- Page 7 ---
Results showed that the binding of specific IgE by the ImmunoCAP Allergen
f338, Scallop was inhibited in a dose dependant fashion by increasing
amounts of the specific allergen extract. This indicates that the tested
ImmunoCAP Allergen solid phase contains the immunologically relevant
allergen.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not provided
5. Expected values/Reference range:
0.35 kU /L is the recommended cut-off. Each laboratory should establish its own
A
expected range of values.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7