
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K072138
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain substantial equivalence of the device for the detection of Clostridium difficile
toxins A & B.
C. Measurand:
C. difficile toxins A & B
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative, automated test on the VIDAS instruments using the enzyme linked fluorescent
assay (ELFA) technique
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VIDAS C. difficile Toxin A & B (CDAB) assay
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LLH I 21 CFR 866.2660, 83
reagents,
Clostridium difficile
toxin
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LLH			I			21 CFR 866.2660,
reagents,
Clostridium difficile
toxin			83		

--- Page 2 ---
The VIDAS CDAB assay is an automated test for use on the VIDAS instruments for the
qualitative detection of Clostridium difficile toxin A and toxin B in stool specimens using
the Enzyme Linked Fluorescent Assay (ELFA) technology.
2. Indication for use:
The VIDAS CDAB assay is an automated test for use on the VIDAS instruments for the
qualitative detection of Clostridium difficile toxin A and toxin B in stool specimens using
the ELFA technology.
3. Special conditions for use statement:
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
The VIDAS PC and miniVIDAS instruments
I. Device Description:
The VIDAS BRAHMS CDAB kit consists of 60 ready to use reagent strips and 60 ready to
use solid phase receptacles (SPRs) whose interiors are coated with C. difficile rabbit
polyclonal anti-toxin A and mouse monoclonal anti-toxin B antibodies. It also contains 1
standard (S1), 1 positive control Toxin A (C1), 1 negative control (C2), 1 positive control
Toxin B (C3), 1 sample diluent (R1) and 1 MLE card containing the factory master
calibration data required to calibrate the test.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Premier C. difficile Toxins A & B
2. Predicate 510(k) number:
K993914
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For the qualitative detection Same
of C. difficile toxins A & B
from stool specimens
Assay technology Enzyme-linked fluorescent Enzyme immunoassay –
assay micro titer well assay
Matrix Stool Same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			For the qualitative detection
of C. difficile toxins A & B
from stool specimens			Same		
Assay technology			Enzyme-linked fluorescent
assay			Enzyme immunoassay –
micro titer well assay		
Matrix			Stool			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technique Automated Non-automated
Capture antibodies Anti-toxin A (rabbit Anti-toxin A (mouse
polyclonal); Anti-toxin B monoclonal); Anti-toxin B
(mouse monoclonal) (goat polyclonal)
Detection antibodies Anti-toxin A & B (mouse Anti-toxin A & B (goat
monoclonal) polyclonal)
Conjugate Mouse monoclonal anti- Horse radish peroxidase
toxin A & B antibodies conjugated to anti-toxins
conjugated with biotin
Sample volume 200 µl 100 µl
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1.“Review criteria for devices assisting in the diagnosis of C. difficile associated diseases”
ODE guidance 5/31/1990
2. “Protocols for determination of limits of detection and limits of quantitation.” Approved
guideline CLSI EP 17-A, Vol. 24, No. 34
L. Test Principle:
The assay principle combines a two-step immunoassay sandwich method with a final
fluorescent detection (ELFA). The SPR, a pipette tip-like device serves as the solid phase as
well as the pipetting device for the assay. Assay reagents are ready to use and pre dispensed
in the sealed reagent strips. Each of four reaction steps is performed automatically by the
VIDAS. The sample/conjugate mixture is cycled in and out of the SPR several times. Each
step is followed by a wash cycle which eliminates unbound components. Step 1: Toxin A
and/or B present in the sample binds with the anti-toxin A & B antibodies coated on the
interior wall of the SPR. Step 2: Binding occurs between toxins and antibodies conjugated
with biotin. Step 3: Presence of biotin is detected by incubation with streptavidin conjugated
with alkaline phosphatase. Step 4: Two detection steps are performed successively. Alkaline
phosphatase catalyzes hydrolysis of the substrate into a fluorescent product. Fluorescence is
measured at 450 nm. Results are automatically calculated by the VIDAS. A test value as
well as the qualitative result (positive, negative or equivocal) is provided on the result sheet
for each sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Technique			Automated			Non-automated		
Capture antibodies			Anti-toxin A (rabbit
polyclonal); Anti-toxin B
(mouse monoclonal)			Anti-toxin A (mouse
monoclonal); Anti-toxin B
(goat polyclonal)		
Detection antibodies			Anti-toxin A & B (mouse
monoclonal)			Anti-toxin A & B (goat
polyclonal)		
Conjugate			Mouse monoclonal anti-
toxin A & B antibodies
conjugated with biotin			Horse radish peroxidase
conjugated to anti-toxins		
Sample volume			200 µl			100 µl		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Six pools of samples; two negative, one equivocal, three positive (low, medium and
high) were tested in duplicate in two runs per day over six days at each of three sites
Total precision was 7.4 – 37.6% C.V. intra- assay precision was 2.9 – 26.3% C.V.
and inter-assay precision was 6.8 – 26.8% C.V.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability studies were performed to detect kit stability, specimen, standard and control
stability as well as stability of cytotoxicity (CTA) test samples.
Kit stability was evaluated by testing three lots (one verification and two pilot lots
used in the clinical trial) for 18 months (real time) at 2-8°C. Currently 12 months of
data has been obtained and the data tables support a 12 month kit expiry. Testing is
on going until 18 months stability data is obtained.
Specimen stability study was performed to determine the storage conditions of stool
specimens prior to processing and stool specimens after processing at various
temperatures and storage times. Thirty one samples (14 negative and 17 positive)
were used for the “prior to processing” study. Twenty five samples (8 negative and 17
positive) were used for the fresh vs. frozen stability storage studies. Twenty samples
(10 negative and 10 positive); standard (S1), controls (C1, C2 and C3) were evaluated
in the “after processing” study. Results showed that prior to processing, at 2- 8 °C,
storage up to 3 days was acceptable; at -25 + 6°C storage up to one month was
acceptable and at -70°C storage for one additional month is acceptable. After
processing, specimen, standard and controls are stable up to 48 hrs. at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
A negative stool pool was spiked with toxin A or toxin B at different levels. Two
samples with levels of 7 ng/ml and 8 ng/ml of toxin A and 2 samples with levels of 4
& 5 ng/ml of toxin B were used for the study. These low positive samples and a
negative sample were tested on the VIDAS according to the following protocol. For
negative sample: 30 repetitions x 2runs i.e. 60 measurements; for each low positive
sample: 4 repetitions x 7 runs and 2 repetitions x 1 run, so 60 measurements per toxin.
The limit of detection study followed CLSI EP 17-A document. Results showed that
the limit of blank of VIDAS CDAB assay is 0.03. For toxin A, LoD is 7.73 ng/ml
while for toxin B LoD is 4.55ng/ml
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Specimens were spiked with relevant microorganisms and cross reactivity and
interference studies were performed using the VIDAS assay. All organisms were
tested at a concentration of 1 x 107 cfu/ml except for Clostridium sordelii tested at a
concentration of 3 x 108 cfu/ml. No cross reactivity nor interference was detected in
the 33 organisms tested. The organisms are as follows:
Staphylococcus aureus, Shigella flexneri, Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella sonnei,
Salmonella group B, Salmonella enteritidis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, E. coli
O157:H7, E. coli, Candida albicans, enterococcus faecalis, Yersinia
enterocolitica, Bacteriodes fragilis, Campylobacter jejuni, Campylobacter coli,
Vibrio cholerae, Aeromonas hydrophila, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius,
Porphyromonas assacharolytica, Clostridium sporogenes, Clostridium
bifermentans and 12 other Clostridium species.
f. Assay cut-off:
The assay cut off is as follows:
Test value <0.13 is a negative result; test value >0.13 to <0.37 is equivocal and test
value >0.37 is a positive result. The test value is equal to the patient relative
fluorescence value/ standard relative fluorescence value.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The VIDAS CDAB assay was compared to a commercial EIA at 2 clinical testing
sites. At site one, 623 samples were tested and at site two, 388 samples were tested.
Combined results from both sites were as follows:
Positive agreement 81.3% (73.4 – 87.6 % C.I.)
Negative agreement 99.5% (98.8 – 99.9% C.I.)
Overall agreement 97.1% (95.9 – 98.1% C.I.)
A total of 42 samples were equivocal and calculations were done with the equivocal
results considered first as negative and then as positive. Results from both sites were
as follows:
With equivocal results considered as negative, positive agreement was 75.9% (67.9 –
82.8% C.I.). and negative agreement was 99.5% (98.8 - 99.9 % C.I.). Overall
agreement was 96.3% (95.0 – 97.4 % C.I.). With equivocal results considered as
positive, positive agreement was 82.5% (75.1 – 88.4 % C.I.) and negative agreement
5

--- Page 6 ---
was 95.8% (94.2 – 97.0 % C.I.). Overall agreement was 94.0% (92.3 – 95.4% C.I.).
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A. Cytotoxicity assay testing was not presented only percent agreement
comparison was done.
b. Clinical specificity:
See (3a).above
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Data provided from the literature showed that the frequency of stools with positive toxins
was 9.5% from 136 hospitals in North America and 13.2 – 17.2 % from 380 hospitals in
Canada. The Society for HealthCare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) reported rates of
17 to 60 cases per 100,000 bed-days.
N. Instrument Name:
The VIDAS PC and the miniVIDAS
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The VIDAS PC instrument cleared in 1989 under K891385 is attached to a computer and
a printer. Each instrument has 5 independent sections allowing 5 different assays to be
run simultaneously. Each section can process up to six samples. When fully loaded it can
process 30 samples. The miniVIDAS is a smaller compact version of the VIDAS PC and
was cleared under K923579 in 1993. It has a built in computer, keyboard and printer and
is popular in physicians’ office laboratories. Two independent sections each can process
6

--- Page 7 ---
six tests so twelve samples can be processed simultaneously. The VIDAS assay can be
run on either instrument.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ________ or No X
3. Specimen Identification:
All assay steps are controlled automatically by the instrument. The sample is transferred
into the wells. The CDAB strip consists of ten wells covered with labeled foil seal. The
label comprises a bar code which indicates the assay code, kit lot number and expiration
date.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The solid phase receptor (SPR) serves as both the solid phase and the pipetting device.
The foil of the 1st well is perforated to allow introduction of the sample into well 1. The
last well (well 10) of each strip is a cuvette in which the fluorometric reading is
performed. The center wells of the strip contain the various reagents required for the
assay.
5. Calibration:
The kit contains a standard S1. It is a dilution of recombinant toxin A from C. difficile in
TRIS buffered saline and BSA 5% and preservatives. It also contains 3 controls. C1 is
positive control Toxin A, C2 is the negative control and C3 is positive control Toxin B.
6. Quality Control:
The Master curve is established at time of manufacture for each lot of reagents. It is
provided with each test kit and is entered into the VIDAS instrument using the Master
Lot Entry card (MLE) included in the kit. Data from the MLE card is entered once for
each lot of reagents. Each lab establishes its own calibration curve (recalibration) based
on the mathematical master curve data and the test results of two calibrators tested in
duplicate by the lab. Recalibration serves to control for minor variations in assay signal
from one VIDAS instrument to another and is therefore specific for each instrument.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
N/A
7

--- Page 8 ---
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
1. The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision
8

--- Page 9 ---
9