
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K072547
B. Purpose for Submission:
New test system
C. Measurand:
Francisella Tularensis DNA sequences
D. Type of Test:
DNA amplification with real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in vitro diagnostic
detection of target DNA sequences of Francisella tularensis (F. tularensis); qualitative result
E. Applicant:
Idaho Technology, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System (JBAIDS) Tularemia Detection
Kit; Real-time PCR amplification and detection system for targeted F. tularensis DNA
sequences
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.3280
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
OEH
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83 - Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System (JBAIDS) Tularemia
Detection Kit is a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test system intended for the
qualitative in vitro diagnostic (IVD) detection of target DNA sequences of Francisella
tularensis. The system can be used to test human whole blood collected in sodium citrate
or sputum collected aseptically from individuals greater than 18 years of age suspected of
having tularemia. In addition, positive blood cultures and colonies may be tested. This
assay is intended to aid in diagnosis of individuals presenting with signs and symptoms of
pneumonic or typhoidal tularemia. It is not intended to aid in the diagnosis of glandular,
ulceroglandular, oculoglandular, or oropharyngeal tularemia.
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is run on the JBAIDS instrument using the
Diagnostic Wizard. Results are for the presumptive identification of F. tularensis, in
conjunction with culture and other laboratory tests.
The definitive identification of F. tularensis from colony growth, liquid blood culture,
blood specimens, or sputum specimens requires additional testing and confirmation
procedures in consultation with public health or other authorities for whom reports are
required.
The diagnosis of tularemia infection must be made based on history, signs, symptoms,
exposure likelihood, and other laboratory evidence, in addition to the identification of the
target either from colonies, blood culture, whole blood specimens, or sputum specimens.
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is intended for use by trained clinical laboratory personnel
who have received specific training on the use of the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection kit. The level of
F. tularensis that would be present in blood or sputum of individuals with early systemic or
pneumonic infection is unknown. Due to the difficulty in obtaining clinical specimens, the assay
was not evaluated with blood or sputum from individuals presenting with signs and symptoms of
tularemia and who subsequently developed pneumonic or typhoidal tularemia.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System (JBAIDS) Tularemia
Detection Kit is a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test system intended for the
qualitative in vitro diagnostic (IVD) detection of target DNA sequences of Francisella
tularensis. The system can be used to test human whole blood collected in sodium citrate
2

--- Page 3 ---
or sputum collected aseptically from individuals greater than 18 years of age suspected of
having tularemia. In addition, positive blood cultures and colonies may be tested. This
assay is intended to aid in diagnosis of individuals presenting with signs and symptoms of
pneumonic or typhoidal tularemia. It is not intended to aid in the diagnosis of glandular,
ulceroglandular, oculoglandular, or oropharyngeal tularemia.
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is run on the JBAIDS instrument using the
Diagnostic Wizard. Results are for the presumptive identification of F. tularensis, in
conjunction with culture and other laboratory tests.
The definitive identification of F. tularensis from colony growth, liquid blood culture,
blood specimens, or sputum specimens requires additional testing and confirmation
procedures in consultation with public health or other authorities for whom reports are
required.
The diagnosis of tularemia infection must be made based on history, signs, symptoms,
exposure likelihood, and other laboratory evidence, in addition to the identification of the
target either from colonies, blood culture, whole blood specimens, or sputum specimens.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is intended for use by trained clinical laboratory
personnel who have received specific training on the use of the JBAIDS Tularemia
Detection kit. The level of F. tularensis that would be present in blood or sputum of
individuals with early systemic or pneumonic infection is unknown. Due to the difficulty
in obtaining clinical specimens, the assay was not evaluated with blood or sputum from
individuals presenting with signs and symptoms of tularemia and who subsequently
developed pneumonic or typhoidal tularemia.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
The JBAIDS instrument was developed by Idaho Technology to serve as a common
platform for the rapid detection of F. tularensis. The JBAIDS instrument and software
were initially cleared for use with the JBAIDS Anthrax Detection Kit in the 510(k)
submission K051713. The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection System is composed of the
JBAIDS instrument and specific freeze-dried reagents for the detection of a gene target of
the F. tularensis.
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is specially designed for performing real-time PCR
in glass capillaries using the JBAIDS instrument and JBAIDS software. Real-time PCR
is accomplished with the use of a hydrolysis probe, which detects a specific sequence
within the region amplified by the assay primers. The probe is labeled on one end with a
fluorescent reporter molecule (6-FAM) and on the other end with a quencher (TAMRA).
When the probe is intact, the quencher absorbs the light emitted by the reporter molecule.
3

--- Page 4 ---
During PCR, the intact probe hybridizes to the amplicon, and the exonuclease activity of
Taq polymerase separates the fluorophore from the quencher, generating a fluorescent
signal that is detected by the instrument. The fluorescent signal increases as additional
template is amplified and more probe is hydrolyzed.
The primers and probes were selected based upon two basic criteria: 1) they detect all
sequenced virulent isolates of F. tularensis, and 2) they do not detect sequences in other
organisms.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
There are two predicate devices referenced to be substantially equivalent to the JBAIDS
Tularemia Detection Kit.
• SAS Francisella tularensis Antigens
• SAS Francisella tularensis Antiserum
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
• K952138
• K952141
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
JBAIDS Tularemia F. tularensis antigens
Detection Kit (K952138) and antiserum
(K952141) for
agglutination tests
Intended Use Qualitative detection of F. Qualitative and semi-
tularensis DNA. quantitative detection of
antibodies to F. tularensis.
Indications for Use Identification of F. Identification of F.
tularensis individuals tularensis antibodies in
suspected of having individuals suspected of
typhoidal or pneumonic having tularemia.
tularemia.
Differences
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities				
Item	Device
JBAIDS Tularemia
Detection Kit		Predicate	
			F. tularensis antigens	
			(K952138) and antiserum	
			(K952141) for	
			agglutination tests	
Intended Use	Qualitative detection of F.
tularensis DNA.	Qualitative and semi-
quantitative detection of
antibodies to F. tularensis.		
Indications for Use	Identification of F.
tularensis individuals
suspected of having
typhoidal or pneumonic
tularemia.	Identification of F.
tularensis antibodies in
individuals suspected of
having tularemia.		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Device
JBAIDS Tularemia
Detection Kit

--- Page 5 ---
Item Device Predicate
JBAIDS Tularemia F. tularensis antigens
Detection Kit (K952138) and antiserum
(K952141) for
agglutination tests
Technological Principles Real-time PCR using Agglutination of antibodies
hydrolysis probes. directed at F. tularensis.
Assay Target DNA sequences unique to Antibodies against F.
F. tularensis. tularensis.
Specimen Types Whole blood (collected in Serum obtained from
3.2% sodium citrate), whole blood.
sputum, blood culture, or
bacterial colonies.
Instrumentation JBAIDS instrument None
(K051713)
Time to Result Less than 3 hours. Less than 1 hr for slide-
based test followed by less
than 1 day for tube-based
test.
Test Interpretation Automated test Subjective interpretation by
interpretation and report user.
generation.
Physical Properties Freeze dried reagents with Liquid reagents.
reconstitution buffer and
water provided in kit.
Storage and Shelf Life 1 year at room temperature Refrigerator temperature
(18-28°C). (2-8°C), manufacturer
defined expiration date.
The predicate device and the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit have the same intended
use. Both provide test results that aid in the diagnosis of tularemia when considered with
other clinical and microbiological evidence, both test for F. tularensis infection directly
from patient specimens, and both provide qualitative test results. While the basic intended
use is the same for the predicate device and the JBAIDS Kit, the technological
characteristics are quite different. The collected specimens were tested for F. tularensis
using the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit and the results compared to the gold standard
culture method.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
This 510(k) Premarket Notification was prepared and referenced the following guidance
documents and recognized standards:
• Nucleic Acid Based in Vitro Diagnostic Devices for Detection of Microbial
Pathogens, FDA Guidance Document (DRAFT final: December 8, 2005)
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Item	Device
JBAIDS Tularemia
Detection Kit		Predicate	
			F. tularensis antigens	
			(K952138) and antiserum	
			(K952141) for	
			agglutination tests	
Technological Principles	Real-time PCR using
hydrolysis probes.	Agglutination of antibodies
directed at F. tularensis.		
Assay Target	DNA sequences unique to
F. tularensis.	Antibodies against F.
tularensis.		
Specimen Types	Whole blood (collected in
3.2% sodium citrate),
sputum, blood culture, or
bacterial colonies.	Serum obtained from
whole blood.		
Instrumentation	JBAIDS instrument
(K051713)	None		
Time to Result	Less than 3 hours.	Less than 1 hr for slide-
based test followed by less
than 1 day for tube-based
test.		
Test Interpretation	Automated test
interpretation and report
generation.	Subjective interpretation by
user.		
Physical Properties	Freeze dried reagents with
reconstitution buffer and
water provided in kit.	Liquid reagents.		
Storage and Shelf Life	1 year at room temperature
(18-28°C).	Refrigerator temperature
(2-8°C), manufacturer
defined expiration date.		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Device
JBAIDS Tularemia
Detection Kit

--- Page 6 ---
• User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance, Clinical Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI) Approved Guideline, EP12-A (August 2002)
• Molecular Diagnostic Methods for Infectious Diseases, CLSI Approved Guideline,
MM3-A (December 1995)
• Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry, CLSI Approved Guideline EP7-A
(December 2002)
L. Test Principle:
The JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit uses real-time PCR with probes to detect F.
tularensis DNA in patient whole blood and sputum samples as well as positive blood
cultures and colonies. The probe detects a specific sequence within the region amplified
by the assay primers. The probe is labeled on one end with a fluorescent reporter
molecule (6-FAM) and on the other end with a quencher (TAMRA). When the probe is
intact, the quencher absorbs the light emitted by the reporter molecule. During PCR, the
intact probe hybridizes to the amplicon, and the exonuclease activity of Taq polymerase
separates the fluorophore from the quencher, generating a fluorescent signal that is
detected by the instrument. The fluorescent signal increases as additional template is
amplified and more probe is hydrolyzed. Temperature and fluorescence data are
displayed in real-time. Each JBAIDS test is analyzed and assigned a final result by the
Detector module of the JBAIDS software. Possible final results are positive, negative,
inhibited, uncertain, or invalid. To assign a final test result, Detector first analyzes the
data from each capillary independently before analyzing the sample duplicates together.
Finally, the software assigns a final result, or a combined call, based on the results of the
sample and all of its controls. Detector calls are characterized as follows:
• Negative – A curve is called negative if its shape can be closely approximated by a
line (or smooth curve), if it has low signal to noise, and if it shows little or no increase
in fluorescence during the PCR.
• Positive – A curve is called positive if the fluorescence shows exponential growth out
of the background, if it has high signal to noise, and if the slope of the exponential
region of the amplification is consistent with a PCR efficiency of around two.
• Uncertain – For a small number of curves (about 0.2%) no clear call is possible and
the reaction is called uncertain.
Once each amplification curve is evaluated by Detector, the software evaluates the
sample duplicates according to the following rules: only if both capillaries are called
positive.
The final test result is a combined call (or meta-call) based on the results of the test
sample and its associated controls. Failure of the Positive or Negative Control results in
invalid results for all associated samples. Inhibition Controls with an inhibited result are
further analyzed before a final result is assigned. An inhibited result can indicate that the
patient sample contains substances capable of inhibiting the PCR reaction or that
6

--- Page 7 ---
competition for the primers has caused a failure of the Inhibition Control. Samples with
inhibited, invalid, or uncertain results require follow-up testing in order to achieve a valid
(positive or negative) result.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Simulated test specimens were prepared by spiking the appropriate matrix with
inactivated F. tularensis to achieve the desired test level concentrations. The table
below shows the concentration of inactivated F. tularensis cells in each test level (for
each matrix), the relationship between the test concentration and the limit of detection
(LOD) for each matrix, and the number of replicate specimens assessed for each test
level. All spiking was performed at Idaho Technology Inc. (ITI). Aliquots of each
specimen were tested at three clinical laboratory test sites in different geographical
locations. . Each site tested each specimen once on each of three days. This
constituted the between-day and between-site evaluations. ITI tested each specimen
twice on the first day, constituting the within-day (between-run) evaluation. Within-
run testing was also performed at ITI by testing an individual purified sample,
representing each test level, seven times within the same JBAIDS run.
Specimen Panels Prepared for Reproducibility Testing
Test Whole blood Sputum Blood culture
level
F. LOD Number of F. tularensis LOD Number F. LOD Number of
tularensis Equivalent replicates conc. Equivalent of tularensis Equivalent replicates
conc. (CFU/mL) replicates conc.
(CFU/mL) (CFU/mL)
Negative 0 N/A 3 0 N/A 2 0 N/A 3
Low 600 2 X 4 5,000 2.5 X 3 - - -
Medium 5,000 17 X 4 25,000 12.5 X 3 - - -
High 100,000 333 X 3 100,000 50 X 2 5,000,000 N/A 3
To assess within-run reproducibility, one purified sample representing each of the
concentration levels shown in the table above was tested seven times in one JBAIDS
run. Within-run reproducibility was 100% for all matrices at all test levels.
Additionally, the precision was high for all matrices when testing at the medium and
high test levels, with a standard deviation (SD) of the Cp that was less than 0.22
cycles. Within-day reproducibility was assessed by testing each matrix-specific
specimen panel twice within one day. For whole blood, the within-day
reproducibility was 96.4% (27 correct out of 28 total tests). For both sputum and
blood culture, within-day reproducibility was 100%.
Between-day reproducibility was assessed by testing each matrix-specific specimen
panel once each day over 3 separate days. Between-site reproducibility was assessed
by performing the between-day evaluation at three test sites. The overall between-
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Test
level	Whole blood					Sputum			Blood culture				
		F.		LOD
Equivalent	Number of
replicates	F. tularensis
conc.
(CFU/mL)	LOD
Equivalent	Number
of
replicates		F.		LOD
Equivalent	Number of
replicates
		tularensis								tularensis			
		conc.								conc.			
		(CFU/mL)								(CFU/mL)			
Negative	0			N/A	3	0	N/A	2	0			N/A	3
Low	600			2 X	4	5,000	2.5 X	3	-			-	-
Medium	5,000			17 X	4	25,000	12.5 X	3	-			-	-
High	100,000			333 X	3	100,000	50 X	2	5,000,000			N/A	3

[Table 2 on page 7]
LOD
Equivalent

[Table 3 on page 7]
Number of
replicates

[Table 4 on page 7]
F. tularensis
conc.
(CFU/mL)

[Table 5 on page 7]
LOD
Equivalent

[Table 6 on page 7]
Number
of
replicates

[Table 7 on page 7]
LOD
Equivalent

[Table 8 on page 7]
Number of
replicates

--- Page 8 ---
site reproducibility was 99.2% for whole blood, 98.9% for sputum, and 100% for
blood culture.
While the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit is designed to provide qualitative results,
an evaluation of precision was performed to estimate the overall variability of the test
system. Testing precision was determined by analyzing the overall variation of the
Cp values, represented by the standard deviation (SD). For whole blood and blood
culture, the medium and high test levels had minimal variation, with the SD of the Cp
being less than one cycle. For sputum, the variability was higher than seen for the
other matrices.
The Reproducibility and Precision studies were satisfactory for this type of assay.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Positive, Negative and Inhibition controls were included in each run and gave
expected results. If not, the runs failed or were called invalid and the run needed to
be repeated.
d. Detection limit:
Initial estimates for setting the Limitations of Detection (LOD) were performed by
spiking whole blood or sputum specimens with a serial dilution of live F. tularensis.
Whole blood specimens collected in 3.2% sodium citrate were spiked between 100
and 1000 CFU/mL. Sputum specimens were spiked between 330 and 3330 CFU/mL.
Each specimen was purified using the appropriate sample purification kit, IT 1-2-3
QFLOWdna for whole blood and IT 1-2-3 VIBE for sputum specimens and the
purified samples were tested with the F. tularensis assay following standard
procedures.
Based on the titration results, the LOD was estimated to be 300 CFU/mL for whole
blood and 2000 CFU/mL for sputum. Reactions were evaluated using the JBAIDS
test result, the Cp, and a visual examination of the amplification curves. To confirm
these LOD levels, 59 whole blood specimens were spiked at 300 CFU/mL and 59
sputum specimens were spiked at 2000 CFU/mL with live F. tularensis. The
specimens were processed and tested, and the frequency of positive results was
determined. All 59 spiked whole blood specimens were successfully detected by the
JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit, indicating that whole blood specimens containing
organism concentrations as low as 300 CFU/mL can be detected with 100% success
(95% CI, 95%-100%). Fifty-seven of the 59 spiked sputum specimens were
successfully detected, indicating that sputum specimens containing F. tularensis at
2000 CFU/mL can be detected with 96.6% success (95% CI, 89.7-100%).
e. Analytical specificity:
8

--- Page 9 ---
The analytic inclusivity and exclusivity of the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit was
assessed by testing panels of well-characterized organisms. The panels were
comprised of (1) strains of F. tularensis representing the known genetic and
geographic distribution of the organism, (2) closely related organisms, and (3)
unrelated organisms typically found in clinical specimens (refer to tables below). F.
tularensis strains were tested using colonies grown on culture plates as well as with
purified DNA at a level equivalent to seven times the established nucleic acid LOD of
the reference strain, F. tularensis Schu4. All non-F. tularensis organisms were tested
using only colonies grown on culture plates.
F. tularensis Inclusivity Test Panel
Strain Designation F. tularensis Strain and Type
Reference Strain Subsp. Tularensis (SCHU4), Type A1
FRAN003 (UCC) Subsp. novicida
FRAN004 (UCC) Subsp. holarctica (LVS), Type B
FRAN012 (UCC) Subsp. holarctica, Type B
FRAN016 (UCC) Subsp. Tularensis (SCHU4), Type A1
FRAN029 (UCC) Subsp. holarctica (425), Type B
FRAN007 (UCC) Subsp. tularensis (DS88-R-160), Type A
FRAN008 (UCC) Subsp. tularensis (DS87-R-135), Type A
NE-UNMC061598 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
NE-UNL091902 (BO17) Subsp. tularensis, Type A
WY-WSVL01 (BO18) Subsp. holarctica, Type B
WY-9868529 (BO19) Subsp. holarctica, Type B
WY-00W4114 (BO20) Subsp. tularensis, Type A
WY-96194280 (BO21) Subsp. holarctica, Type B
WY-WSVL02 (BO22) Subsp. tularensis, Type A
OK-00101504 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
OK-98041035 (BO23) Subsp. tularensis, Type A
MS-304 Subsp. holarctica, Type B
NC-54558-01 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
NC-52797-99 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
NC-54559-01 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
Rabbit, no code Subsp. tularensis, Type A
MO MS1349 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
AFIOH Feline Subsp. tularensis, Type A
MO, no code, human Subsp. holarctica, Type B
NE-BLGH100903 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
NC-48620-97 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
AFIOH UTPH 2173 Subsp. tularensis, Type A
Exclusivity Panel
Organism
Francisella philomiragia (FOPA +, FTUL -)
Moraxella catarrhalis
Neisseria lactamica
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
	Strain Designation			F. tularensis Strain and Type	
Reference Strain			Subsp. Tularensis (SCHU4), Type A1		
FRAN003 (UCC)			Subsp. novicida		
FRAN004 (UCC)			Subsp. holarctica (LVS), Type B		
FRAN012 (UCC)			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
FRAN016 (UCC)			Subsp. Tularensis (SCHU4), Type A1		
FRAN029 (UCC)			Subsp. holarctica (425), Type B		
FRAN007 (UCC)			Subsp. tularensis (DS88-R-160), Type A		
FRAN008 (UCC)			Subsp. tularensis (DS87-R-135), Type A		
NE-UNMC061598			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
NE-UNL091902 (BO17)			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
WY-WSVL01 (BO18)			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
WY-9868529 (BO19)			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
WY-00W4114 (BO20)			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
WY-96194280 (BO21)			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
WY-WSVL02 (BO22)			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
OK-00101504			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
OK-98041035 (BO23)			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
MS-304			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
NC-54558-01			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
NC-52797-99			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
NC-54559-01			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
Rabbit, no code			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
MO MS1349			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
AFIOH Feline			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
MO, no code, human			Subsp. holarctica, Type B		
NE-BLGH100903			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
NC-48620-97			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		
AFIOH UTPH 2173			Subsp. tularensis, Type A		

[Table 2 on page 9]
	Organism	
Francisella philomiragia (FOPA +, FTUL -)		
Moraxella catarrhalis		
Neisseria lactamica		

--- Page 10 ---
Pasteurella multocida
Enterobacter aerogenes
Enterobacter agglomerans
Enterobacter cloacae
Escherichia coli
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Proteus mirabilis
Proteus vulgaris
Salmonella enteritidis
Shigella sonnei
Yersinia enterocolitica
Y. enterocolitica
Y. enterocolitica
Yersinia frederiksenii
Yersinia kristensenii
Y. kristensenii
Yersinia pseudotuberculosis
Y. pseudotuberculosis
Y. pseudotuberculosis
Yersinia ruckeri
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi 14028
For all colonies evaluated, the final test result was compared to the expected test
result based on microbiological identification methods, and the Cp value for positive
samples was evaluated. Organisms in the inclusivity panel were expected to test
positive and have Cp values around 20, while organisms in the exclusivity panel were
expected to test negative. For the inclusivity panel testing using purified DNA
samples, the test result and Cp value for each sample were evaluated. The LOD for
each F. tularensis strain was considered equivalent to the reference strain,
F. tularensis, if the test result was positive and the average Cp value for the strain was
within 1.5 cycles of the average Cp value obtained for the reference strain.
When testing colonies, all 27 strains of F. tularensis were correctly identified by the
JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit. The average Cp values obtained for the different
strains ranged from 19.18 to 24.69. In addition, all 27 strains gave the expected
results. The probabilities ranged from 90% to 100%, indicating high confidence in
the reference results.
Of the 24 organisms in the exclusivity panel, 23 gave the expected negative result.
F. philomiragia tested positive with the JBAIDS Tularemia assay. Two additional
isolates of F. philomiragia were tested and gave similar results. This result was not
unexpected given the sequence similarities between F. tularensis and F.
philomiragia. The average Cp value when testing F. philomiragia was approximately
21 cycles later than the average Cp value obtained when testing F. tularensis colonies
(42.5 compared to 21.2), indicating that the cross-reactivity is weak.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
Pasteurella multocida
Enterobacter aerogenes
Enterobacter agglomerans
Enterobacter cloacae
Escherichia coli
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Proteus mirabilis
Proteus vulgaris
Salmonella enteritidis
Shigella sonnei
Yersinia enterocolitica
Y. enterocolitica
Y. enterocolitica
Yersinia frederiksenii
Yersinia kristensenii
Y. kristensenii
Yersinia pseudotuberculosis
Y. pseudotuberculosis
Y. pseudotuberculosis
Yersinia ruckeri
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi 14028

--- Page 11 ---
Interfering Substances
The F. tularensis assay was tested against a panel of potentially interfering
substances. The concentration of each substance tested represented a relevant
concentration in accordance with CLSI EP7-A Interference Testing in Clinical
Chemistry Approved Guideline. All endogenous and exogenous substances typically
found in whole blood, sputum, blood cultures, or colonies were spiked into the
sample matrix and subjected to sample processing with the appropriate IT 1-2-3
Sample Purification Kit prior to testing with the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Kit.
The sample purification portion of the system is designed to isolate DNA and remove
other impurities; therefore, sample processing should eliminate most potentially
interfering substances from the purified sample. Because technique-specific
substances can be encountered during reaction setup, all such substances were added
to the purified samples immediately prior to reaction setup.
Once prepared, each sample was tested using an Inhibition Control vial and an
Unknown vial. The substance was considered to be an interfering substance if the
target assay was called negative or inhibited by the JBAIDS Software. A substance
was considered to be potentially inhibitory if the Cp of the target assay or the IC
assay was delayed by more than three cycles or if the Fmax of either assay was
decreased by more than 50% compared to samples with no substance added.
The table below lists the potentially interfering substances that were tested.
List of Potentially Interfering Substances
Endogenous Exogenous Substances
Substances
Hemoglobin Acetaminophen Ibuprofen Acid-citrate-dextrose
Albumin Amoxicillin Naproxen sodium Citrate (sodium)
Bilirubin Ascorbic acid Rifampin EDTA
Triglycerides Aspirin Streptomycin Heparin
Cholesterol (total) Cefotaxime Sulfamethoxazole Sodium polyanethol sulfonate
Immunoglobulins Chloroquine Tetracycline (SPS)
Glucose Ciprofloxacin Tobramycin Albuterol (Salbutamol)
Doxycycline Trimethoprim Cromolyn sodium
Erythromycin Flunisolide (Flovent)
Gentamicin sulfate N-acetylcysteine
Blood culture media
Chocolate agar media
Solvents Useda Technique-specific Substances
Acetone Bleach ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer 1 QIAGEN Buffer AL
DMSO DNAZap™ (Ambion) ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer QIAGEN Buffer AW1
Ethanol Snap n’ Digest™ (Scientific Device 1A QIAGEN Buffer AW1 (w/o
NH4OH Laboratory) ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer EtOH)
1B QIAGEN Buffer AW2
ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer QIAGEN Buffer AW2 (w/o
1C EtOH)
ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer 2
a These are solvents used to dissolve potentially interfering substances in preparation for testing.
Of all the substances tested, only those listed below showed evidence of inhibiting the
F. tularensis assay:
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
	Endogenous		Exogenous Substances							
	Substances									
Hemoglobin
Albumin
Bilirubin
Triglycerides
Cholesterol (total)
Immunoglobulins
Glucose	Hemoglobin		Acetaminophen
Amoxicillin
Ascorbic acid
Aspirin
Cefotaxime
Chloroquine
Ciprofloxacin
Doxycycline
Erythromycin
Gentamicin sulfate		Ibuprofen
Naproxen sodium
Rifampin
Streptomycin
Sulfamethoxazole
Tetracycline
Tobramycin
Trimethoprim				Acid-citrate-dextrose	
	Albumin								Citrate (sodium)	
	Bilirubin								EDTA	
	Triglycerides								Heparin	
	Cholesterol (total)								Sodium polyanethol sulfonate	
	Immunoglobulins								(SPS)	
	Glucose								Albuterol (Salbutamol)	
									Cromolyn sodium	
									Flunisolide (Flovent)	
									N-acetylcysteine	
									Blood culture media	
									Chocolate agar media	
	Solvents Useda			Technique-specific Substances						
Acetone
DMSO
Ethanol
NH4OH	Acetone		Bleach
DNAZap™ (Ambion)
Snap n’ Digest™ (Scientific Device
Laboratory)	Bleach		ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer 1		QIAGEN Buffer AL
QIAGEN Buffer AW1
QIAGEN Buffer AW1 (w/o
EtOH)
QIAGEN Buffer AW2
QIAGEN Buffer AW2 (w/o
EtOH)	QIAGEN Buffer AL	
	DMSO			DNAZap™ (Ambion)		ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer			QIAGEN Buffer AW1	
	Ethanol			Snap n’ Digest™ (Scientific Device		1A			QIAGEN Buffer AW1 (w/o	
	NH4OH			Laboratory)		ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer			EtOH)	
						1B			QIAGEN Buffer AW2	
						ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer			QIAGEN Buffer AW2 (w/o	
						1C			EtOH)	
						ITI 1-2-3 kit Buffer 2				

[Table 2 on page 11]
Acetaminophen
Amoxicillin
Ascorbic acid
Aspirin
Cefotaxime
Chloroquine
Ciprofloxacin
Doxycycline
Erythromycin
Gentamicin sulfate

[Table 3 on page 11]
Ibuprofen
Naproxen sodium
Rifampin
Streptomycin
Sulfamethoxazole
Tetracycline
Tobramycin
Trimethoprim

--- Page 12 ---
• SPS
• Bleach
• DNAZap
• QIAGEN Buffer AL
• QIAGEN Buffer AW1
• QIAGEN Buffer AW1 (no ethanol added)
• ITI Buffer 1A
• ITI Buffer 1B
• ITI Buffer 1C
• ITI Buffer 1
Samples containing SPS have previously been found to inhibit PCR amplification,
and, given the test results reported here, blood collection tubes containing this
anticoagulant should not be used to collect specimens for use with the JBAIDS
Tularemia Detection Kit. While blood culture media contains SPS, no inhibition was
seen when testing blood culture samples. The 100-fold dilution included in the blood
culture sample purification protocol likely decreases the SPS concentration in the
sample below the inhibitory level. All other inhibitory substances were technique
specific. Appropriate recommendations will be made in the product insert,
Limitations of the Procedure section.
f. Assay cut-off:
A data analysis module within assay-specific software applies mathematical modeling
of expected amplification curve shapes to each individual capillary. When fixed
thresholds with a quadratic formula or crossing point determination are matched,
samples are called negative or positive. For undecided samples, an expert system
approach is applied that uses filters to assess the fluorescence change around the
crossing point.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
The studies were done in sputum, whole blood, cultured isolates and from positive blood
culture bottles. Studies showed that there were differences in blood and sputum
specimens.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
This assay was not evaluated with blood or sputum from individuals presenting with
signs and symptoms of tularemia and who subsequently developed pneumonic or
12

--- Page 13 ---
typhoidal tularemia because of the low prevalence of tularemia in the US. Users may
want to establish the clinical sensitivity of this test on prospectively collected clinical
specimens.
b. Clinical specificity:
A multicenter clinical study was conducted over a 7-month period on 169 patients
exhibiting symptoms consistent with systemic tularemia infection. Patients were selected
from those who were hospitalized, exhibited the clinical definition of Systemic
Inflammatory Response Syndrome, and for whom a blood and/or sputum culture had
been ordered. The study subjects ranged in age from 18–94 years (mean 43), and 50.6%
were male. Blood samples from 149 subjects were collected and tested, while 45 sputum
samples were collected and tested. For 25 subjects both blood and sputum specimens
were tested.
The study was conducted at two U.S. sites and outside the U.S. The clinical specificity of
the JBAIDS Tularemia Detection System was assessed by comparing the JBAIDS results
(Positive/Negative) to the results obtained by established culture and microbiology
follow-up methods.
Using the standard testing protocol, all 132 whole blood and 36 sputum samples gave
the expected negative result with the F. tularensis assay. In addition, all culture results
were negative for F. tularensis. Therefore, the clinical specificity of the JBAIDS
Tularemia Detection Kit is at least 97% (97–100% with 95% confidence) when testing
whole blood samples and 92% (92–100% with 95% confidence) when testing sputum
samples.
Table 6. Summary of Clinical Testing for Whole Blood and Sputum.
JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Results
Total
Positive Negative Inhibited Uncertain Removed
Subjects
from Study
Blood Culture—no
0 116 0 0 13 129
organism
Blood Culture—with
organisma
0 16 0 0 4 20
Site 1b 0 30d 0 0 12 42
Site 2c 0 86e 0 0 4 90
All Patients
Site 3b 0 16f 0 0 1 17
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
Table 6. Summary of Clinical Testing for Whole Blood and Sputum.							
JBAIDS Tularemia Detection Results							
							
		Positive	Negative	Inhibited	Uncertain	Removed
from Study	Total
Subjects
Blood Culture—no
organism		0	116	0	0	13	129
Blood Culture—with
organisma		0	16	0	0	4	20
All Patients	Site 1b	0	30d	0	0	12	42
	Site 2c	0	86e	0	0	4	90
	Site 3b	0	16f	0	0	1	17

--- Page 14 ---
Total 0 132 0 0 17 149
Sputum Culture—no 0 23 0 0 8 31
organism
Sputum Culture—with 0 13 0 0 1 14
organismg
Site 1 0 4 0 0 4 8
All Patients Site 2 0 26h 0 0 4 30
Site 3 0 6 0 0 1 7
Total 0 36 0 0 9 45
a List of organisms recovered from blood culture and number: beta-hemolytic Streptococcus (n=1), Brucella sp.
(n=2),Corynebacterium sp. (n=1), coagulase negative Staphylococcus (n=1), Enterococcus sp. (n=2), Escherichia coli (n=1),
gram positive coccus (n=1), Kocuria varians (n=3), Micrococcus sp. (n=1), Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (n=6),
Propionibacterium acnes (n=1), Staphylococcus epidermidis (n=2), Staphylococcus warner (n=1), Streptococcus
constellatus (n=1)
b Blood culture technique at Sites 1 and 3: BacT/ALERT® 3D using BacT/ALERT SA (aerobic) and BacT/ALERT SN
(anaerobic), BACTEC™ 9240 Plus held for 5 days at 35°C.
c Blood culture technique used at Site 2. BACTEC Plus Aerobic F blood culture bottles held at 37°C for 5 days, manual
evaluation and subculture.
d Three samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
e Two samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
f Two samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
g List of organisms recovered from sputum culture and number: Aspergillus fumigatus (n=1), Candida sp. (n=3), Klebsiella
pneumoniae (n=1), Haemophilus influenza (n=1), Haemolytic streptococcus (n=3), methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (n=5), Moraxella cataralis (n=1), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n=1), Serratia marcescens (n=3), Staphylococcus
epidermidis (n=1)
h Seven samples required retesting to achieve a final result. Five samples were included in one run for which the controls
failed.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable, qualitative test.
N. Instrument Name:
JBAIDS instrument
O. System Descriptions:
14

[Table 1 on page 14]
Total		0	132	0	0	17	149
Sputum Culture—no
organism		0	23	0	0	8	31
Sputum Culture—with
organismg		0	13	0	0	1	14
All Patients	Site 1	0	4	0	0	4	8
	Site 2	0	26h	0	0	4	30
	Site 3	0	6	0	0	1	7
Total		0	36	0	0	9	45
a List of organisms recovered from blood culture and number: beta-hemolytic Streptococcus (n=1), Brucella sp.
(n=2),Corynebacterium sp. (n=1), coagulase negative Staphylococcus (n=1), Enterococcus sp. (n=2), Escherichia coli (n=1),
gram positive coccus (n=1), Kocuria varians (n=3), Micrococcus sp. (n=1), Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (n=6),
Propionibacterium acnes (n=1), Staphylococcus epidermidis (n=2), Staphylococcus warner (n=1), Streptococcus
constellatus (n=1)
b Blood culture technique at Sites 1 and 3: BacT/ALERT® 3D using BacT/ALERT SA (aerobic) and BacT/ALERT SN
(anaerobic), BACTEC™ 9240 Plus held for 5 days at 35°C.
c Blood culture technique used at Site 2. BACTEC Plus Aerobic F blood culture bottles held at 37°C for 5 days, manual
evaluation and subculture.
d Three samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
e Two samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
f Two samples required retesting to achieve the final result.
g List of organisms recovered from sputum culture and number: Aspergillus fumigatus (n=1), Candida sp. (n=3), Klebsiella
pneumoniae (n=1), Haemophilus influenza (n=1), Haemolytic streptococcus (n=3), methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (n=5), Moraxella cataralis (n=1), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (n=1), Serratia marcescens (n=3), Staphylococcus
epidermidis (n=1)
h Seven samples required retesting to achieve a final result. Five samples were included in one run for which the controls
failed.							

--- Page 15 ---
1. Modes of Operation:
All sample testing is managed by the software embedded Diagnostic Wizard; up to 32
capillaries can be loaded into one carousel for a run.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ____X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Specimen information is a pre-defined protocol that guides a user through entering
sample information, loading the JBAIDS carousel, and starting the testing sequence.
Data, result call displays and generation of final reports is managed through the traceable
database using the Diagnostic Wizard. Capillaries are identified by their position number
in the carousel.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Blood specimens must be collected in tubes with sodium citrate anticoagulant. Other
anticoagulants are not indicated and may contribute to unreliable results. DNA is initially
extracted and purified from whole blood specimens using the Idaho Technology IT 1-2-
3 FLOW Sample Purification Kit (or validated equivalent), and from blood culture
TM
and direct culture samples using the Idaho Technology IT 1-2-3 SWIPE Sample
TM
Purification Kit (or validated equivalent). Purified samples must be diluted prior to
adding to reagent vials.
5. Calibration:
The fluorimeter is factory-calibrated. Internal self-check procedures are run with each
startup. Cycling temperatures are monitored continuously during a run. The internal
control and positive control must meet specific criteria for a successful run.
6. Quality Control:
Negative Control
The Negative Control (NC) is used to detect contamination from target-specific
amplicon, genomic DNA {as found in the Positive Control (PC) vials}, or organism. One
NC (resulting in two capillaries) must be included for each assay in a test run. Both of the
NC capillaries must be Negative, or the JBAIDS software will assign Invalid results to all
of the associated samples, and the run must be repeated. Frequent or repeated failures of
NCs may indicate significant contamination of the work area.
Positive Control
The PC serves as an amplification and detection control. One PC (resulting in two
capillaries) must be included for each assay in a test run. Both of the PC capillaries must
15

--- Page 16 ---
be Positive and have Cp results that are earlier than the assay’s specific cutoff value. If
either capillary fails, the JBAIDS software will assign Invalid results to all of the
associated samples, and the run must be repeated. Failure of the PCs may indicate errors
in sample setup, degradation of the reagents, or a malfunction of the JBAIDS instrument.
If the IC capillaries in the same test run are Positive, then the failure is most likely caused
by an isolated error with the setup of the PC. If the IC capillaries are also Negative,
possible causes for failure are 1) a systematic error in sample setup, 2) degradation of the
reagents, or 3) a malfunction of the JBAIDS instrument.
Inhibition Control
The IC is used to demonstrate that the purified sample does not interfere with, or inhibit,
the PCR reaction. Each purified sample is tested using an Unknown vial and IC vial (for
a total of four capillaries). If either of the IC amplification curves demonstrates inhibition
and the target assay is negative, then the result for that sample will be Inhibited. The IC
amplification curves are called Inhibited by the JBAIDS software if 1) the Cp value for
the IC exceeds the assay specific cutoff value or 2) if the shape of the amplification curve
demonstrates reduced PCR efficiency, as evidenced by a flattening of the amplification
curve.
DNA Extraction Control
Well characterized strains of F. tularensis and non F. tularensis may be used as external
NCs and PCs according to guidelines or requirements of local, state, and/or federal
regulations or accrediting organizations. However, due to safety and regulatory
requirements related to the distribution of F. tularensis and other select agents, this is not
feasible in most user settings. To address the lack of appropriate control materials, Idaho
Technology has developed a DNA Extraction Control Kit that can be used to ensure the
proper functioning of the sample purification kits and procedures. The DNA Extraction
Control kit is designed to work with all of Idaho Technology’s 1-2-3 Sample Purification
Kits and can be used for both environmental and diagnostic applications. This kit can also
be used for training or for verification of user technique.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Carryover and Cross-contamination
Sets of whole blood, sputum and blood culture specimens were spiked with inactivated F.
tularensis at approximately 5 x 106 CFU/mL. This concentration of organism yields a
very strong positive signal (an early Cp with a consistent Fmax) when tested with the F.
tularensis target assay. For each matrix evaluated, three different operators tested three
independent sample sets. The sample sets, consisting of seven negative samples and
seven positive samples, were processed using the appropriate IT 1-2-3 Sample
16

--- Page 17 ---
Purification Kit. The purified samples were subsequently tested using the freeze-dried F.
tularensis assay on the JBAIDS instrument.
For all three matrices, all negative reactions tested negative, indicating that no detectable
carryover occurred during either sample purification or reaction set-up. Additionally, all
positive samples tested positive with Cp values indicative of high organism
concentrations (whole blood, 24.23±0.66; sputum, 23.76±0.39; blood culture,
26.68±0.42).
Sample Transport and Storage
The evaluations were performed using simulated samples prepared by spiking live F.
tularensis into whole blood and sputum specimens. For the assessment of colonies and
blood-culture specimens, a panel of F. tularensis and non-F. tularensis isolates was used
for the positive and negative samples, respectively.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
17

--- Page 18 ---
18