
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K072869
B. Purpose for Submission:
Traditional 510(k) with modifications of a previously cleared device.
C. Measurand:
The device enumerates white blood cell populations, certain T-lymphocyte subsets, and
hemoglobin concentration from human whole blood.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, automated flow cytometry.
E. Applicant:
PointCare Technologies, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
PointCare NOW System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5220
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GKZ
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The PointCare NOW System is an automated hematology system intended for in vitro
diagnostic use in performing the direct enumeration of major white blood cell
populations, certain t-lymphocyte subset, and hemoglobin concentration from human
whole blood.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Whole blood samples can be analyzed with the PointCare NOW System for the following
parameters: White Blood Cell count, Lymphocyte Count, Lymphocyte %, CD-4
Lymphocyte Count, CD-4 Lymphocyte %, Monocyte Count, Monocyte %, Neutrophil
Count, Neutrophil %, Eosinophil Count, Eosinophil %, Hemoglobin Concentration.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The PointCare Now System uses an integrated touch screen interface and a processor as its
central processing unit for system operation and data analysis. The epsilon OSE-based
software analyses the patient sample for immune hematology parameters, with automated
cluster finding algorithms. The Internal Storage Memory allows for the storage of up to 8,000
analyses. The included memory stick/travel drive facilitates the easy transfer of patient
results from the system computer to another, and additionally expands the system to store up
to 50,000 analyses.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
a. FlowCare/AuRICA Flow Cytometer
b. Sysmex XE-2100 Hematology Analyzer
2

--- Page 3 ---
c. FlowCare PLG System for EPICS XL Flow Cytometry Systems
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
a. K041882
b. K992875
c. K043215
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Specimen Sample Anticoagulated whole blood FlowCare/AURICA: Same
Sysmex XE-2100: Same
CD4 Reagent Anti-CD4 monoclonal FlowCare/AURICA: Same
antibody conjugated to
colloidal gold substrate
Principle of Operation Light Scatter and Sysmex XE-2100: Same
Impedance
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Determination of WBC FlowCare AuRICA: WBC
count, 4-part differential, count, Lymphocyte count,
CD4 T-Lymphocyte count, Lymphocyte %, CD4 T-
CD4 %, and hemoglobin. Lymphocyte count, and
CD4 %.
Sysmex XE-2100: 5-part
differential, hemoglobin,
plus other hematologic
parameters including RBCs
and platelets.
FlowCare PLG: CD4 %
(CD4 T-Lymphocyte
count=CD4% x
Lymphocyte count from
hematology analyzer.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Specimen Sample
CD4 Reagent
Principle of Operation			Anticoagulated whole blood
Anti-CD4 monoclonal
antibody conjugated to
colloidal gold substrate
Light Scatter and
Impedance			FlowCare/AURICA: Same
Sysmex XE-2100: Same
FlowCare/AURICA: Same
Sysmex XE-2100: Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Determination of WBC
count, 4-part differential,
CD4 T-Lymphocyte count,
CD4 %, and hemoglobin.			FlowCare AuRICA: WBC
count, Lymphocyte count,
Lymphocyte %, CD4 T-
Lymphocyte count, and
CD4 %.
Sysmex XE-2100: 5-part
differential, hemoglobin,
plus other hematologic
parameters including RBCs
and platelets.
FlowCare PLG: CD4 %
(CD4 T-Lymphocyte
count=CD4% x
Lymphocyte count from
hematology analyzer.		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Specimen Sample Anticoagulated whole blood FlowCare PLG: Lysed
anticoagulated whole
blood.
CD4 Reagent Anti-CD4 monoclonal FlowCare PLG: Anti-CD4
antibody conjugated to monoclonal antibody
colloidal gold substrate. labeled with fluorochrome.
Instrumentation: Compact flow-based FlowCare AuRICA:
immune hematology Compact flow-based
analyzer with integrated immune hematology
touch screen and software. analyzer with computer and
software.
Sysmex XE-2100: Standard
hematology analyzer with
computer and software.
FlowCare PLG: Standard
flow cytometer with
computer and software.
Principle of Operation Light scatter and impedance FlowCare AuRICA: Light
scatter
FlowCare PLG: Light
scatter and fluorescence
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
a. Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Premarket Notifications for Automated
Differential Cell Counters for Immature or Abnormal Blood Cells; Final Guidance for
Industry and FDA Staff, January 11, 2002.
b. Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices, May 29, 1998.
L. Test Principle:
The system uses a photometer for Hgb, and impedance orifice for WBC, and a multi-angle
light scatter cytometer for all other parameters. The multi-angle light scatter cytometer
measures wide angle light scatter as a cell granularity index and low angle scatter as a cell
size index. The gold particle anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody conjugate binds to the cell
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Specimen Sample
CD4 Reagent
Instrumentation:
Principle of Operation			Anticoagulated whole blood
Anti-CD4 monoclonal
antibody conjugated to
colloidal gold substrate.
Compact flow-based
immune hematology
analyzer with integrated
touch screen and software.
Light scatter and impedance			FlowCare PLG: Lysed
anticoagulated whole
blood.
FlowCare PLG: Anti-CD4
monoclonal antibody
labeled with fluorochrome.
FlowCare AuRICA:
Compact flow-based
immune hematology
analyzer with computer and
software.
Sysmex XE-2100: Standard
hematology analyzer with
computer and software.
FlowCare PLG: Standard
flow cytometer with
computer and software.
FlowCare AuRICA: Light
scatter
FlowCare PLG: Light
scatter and fluorescence		

--- Page 5 ---
surface and imparts granularity to the cell. Wide angle light scatter is used to detect granular
cells and forward angle scatter is used to size cells making it possible to distinguish and
enumerate CD4 positive T-Helper lymphocytes from other lymphocytes and other white
blood cell types.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision study was performed to assess the within-run precision and total
precision of the PointCare NOW system by replicate measurements of control
materials. Control materials were analyzed on two PointCare Now instruments in
accordance with the instructions for use. For each instrument, the precision study was
performed on three days. On each day, testing consisted of three separate runs. In
each run, three replicate measurements were performed for each level of control
material. The control materials used were Bi-level Hematology Controls (Streck
STak-CHEX Low and Normal.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Table 1: Summary of Within-Run Precision and Total Precision
A precision study was performed to assess the within-day precision of the
PointCare NOW System by replicate measurements of whole blood samples.
Whole blood samples were analyzed on two PointCare NOW instruments in
accordance with the instructions for use. For each instrument, the precision study
was performed on one day and testing consisted of ten separate runs. Four whole
blood samples were used and selected to fall within three ranges (3,000-6,000
cells/µL; 6,000-8,000 cells/µL; and 8,000-10,000 cells/µL). The results
demonstrated acceptable performance for the PointCare NOW System.
6

--- Page 7 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
A linearity study was performed to assess the performance of the PointCare NOW
System over a wide range of cell concentrations. For each parameter, measurements
were made for cell concentration levels spanning the respective method ranges (full
range). Also, WBC count and hemoglobin were also evaluated in the low range. For
both the full range and low range studies, six concentration levels were analyzed.
Samples for the full range study were prepared using a concentrated whole blood
sample diluted with autologous platelet poor plasma to achieve the desired
concentration levels. The sample for each concentration level was analyzed four times
in random sequence on each of the two PointCare NOW instruments.
Table 2: Summary of Linearity Study
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
N/A
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
7

--- Page 8 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A multi-site (in-house and two outside sites) prospective study was conducted to
evaluate the performance of the PointCare NOW System and reagents. A total of 249
whole blood samples met the study criteria and were analyzed by both the PointCare
NOW method and two outside sites with cleared predicate devices.
Table 3: Method Comparison with Predicate Devices
8

--- Page 9 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
The antigen specificity of the CD4 monoclonal antibody has been previously
established by the Fourth and Fifth International Workshops for Leukocyte Typing.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
A carryover study was performed to assess the effect of a whole blood sample on
the background counts in subsequent analyses. The study was performed on two
PointCare NOW instruments for the three different detection methods (WBC #,
Hgb and Cytometer).
Table 4: Carryover
9

--- Page 10 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values for each parameter for the PointCare NOW were calculated using an
assumed health Northeaster United States population.
Table 5: Expected Values/Reference Range
N. Instrument Name:
PointCare NOW System
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Fully-automated cap piercing, closed tube system with position recognition.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ____X____ or No ________ Software was reviewed at a Moderate Level of
Concern.
10

--- Page 11 ---
3. Specimen Identification:
Barcode reader with tube position verification.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Fully-automated closed tube piercing, automated mixing, and control reaction
temperature.
5. Calibration:
The PointCare NOW System is factory calibrated.
6. Quality Control:
PointCare recommends running fixed whole blood hematology controls, CBCNOW
Control Normal and CBCNOW Control Low, and fixed whole blood CD4 controls,
CD4NOW Control Normal and CD4NOW Control Low, at the beginning of each work
day before performing sample analysis.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
N/A
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
S. Other Supportive Device and Instrument Information:
N/A
11