
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k072965
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Complement 1 inhibitor (inactivator)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative immuno-nephelometry
E. Applicant:
Dade Behring Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Proprietary Name: Dimension Vista C1IN Flex reagent cartridge, Dimension Vista C1IN
CAL, and Dimension Vista C1IN CON
Established name: Complement C1 inhibitor, antigen, antigen, control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.5250 Complement C1 inhibitor (inactivator) immunological test system.
21 CFR§ 862.1150, Calibrator
21 CFR§ 862.1660, Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class II – Device and Calibrator
Class I - Quality control material
3. Product code:
DBA, Complement C1 inhibitor (inactivator) antigen, antiserum, control
JIT, Calibrator, secondary
JJX, Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (Assayed and Unassayed)
4. Panel:
Immunology (82), Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The C1IN method is an in vitro diagnostic test for the quantitative measurement of C1
inhibitor in human serum and plasma on the Dimension Vista Systems. Measurement of
C1 inhibitor aids in the diagnosis of hereditary angioneurotic edema (increased blood
vessel permeability causing swelling of tissues) and a rare form of angioedemia
associated with lymphoma (lymph node cancer).
The C1IN CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the C1 inhibitor
method on the Dimension Vista System.
C1 inhibitor control is an assayed, mid level, intra-laboratory quality control for
assessment of precision and analytical bias on the Dimension Vista System in the
quantitative determination of C1 inhibitor (C1IN).
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
Measurement of C1 inhibitor aids in the diagnosis of hereditary angioneurotic edema
(increased blood vessel permeability causing swelling of tissues) and a rare form of
angioedemia associated with lymphoma (lymph node cancer)
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista System (k051087)
I. Device Description:
The device is an in vitro diagnostic measurement system utilizing reagents, calibrators, and
controls for use on the Dimension Vista System to measure the presence of complement 1
inhibitor (C1 inhibitor) in human serum and plasma.
The assay reagent consists of a cartridge containing rabbit polyclonal antiserum to C1
inhibitor (concentration 984 g/L) containing sodium azide (an anti-microbial preservative at
approximately 0.1% w/v) and a phosphate buffer containing polidocanol (preservative). The
reagent cartridge is utilized with the Dimension Vista instrument which performs all
specimen and reagent handling, mixing, and processing for a test result. Calibration and
assay quality control is performed automatically by the Dimension Vista system.
The C1 inhibitor calibrator consists of 4 vials, 1.0 ml per vial when reconstituted, containing
a lyophilized human plasma based product containing C1 inhibitor at a lot-specific defined
concentration. The calibrator contains the preservative sodium azide (at approximately 0.1%
when reconstituted). The reagent is prepared for use by addition of 1.0 ml of distilled water.
The C1 inhibitor control consists of 4 vials, 1.0 ml per vial when reconstituted, containing
lyophilized human plasma based product of C1 inhibitor at a lot-specific defined
concentration. The control contains the preservative sodium azide (at approximately 0.1%
when reconstituted). The reagent is prepared for use by addition of 1.0 ml of distilled water.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
N antisera to human C1 inhibitor
N Protein Standard PY
N/T Protein Control PY
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k960257
k960257
k962407
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use of assay reagent The C1IN method is an in In vitro diagnostic reagents
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use of assay reagent			The C1IN method is an in			In vitro diagnostic reagents		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
vitro diagnostic test for the for the quantitative
quantitative measurement of determination of C1
C1 inhibitor in human inhibitor (C1-inactivator,
serum and plasma on the C1-esterase inhibitor) in
Dimension Vista Systems. human plasma and serum
Measurement of C1 using the BN Systems
inhibitor aids in the
diagnosis of hereditary
angioneurotic edema
(increased blood vessel
permeability causing
swelling of tissues) and a
rare form of angioedemia
associated with lymphoma
(lymph node cancer)
Assay testing principle Immuno-nephelometry Same
Assay reagent antibody Polyclonal rabbit anti-C1 Same
inhibitor antibdoy
Assay reportable range 0.03 to 0.40 g/L Same
Calibrator reagent form Lyophilized human plasma Same
Control reagent form Lyophilized human plasma Same
Control concentration range 1.4 – 3.5 g/L Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyzer system Dimension Vista Systems BN Systems
Intended Use of Calibrator The C1IN CAL is an in vitro Establishment of reference
diagnostic product for the curves for the
calibration of the C1 inhibitor immunochemical
method on the Dimension determination of fibrinogen,
Vista System antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, C1
inhibitor using the BN
systems as well as fibronectin
by radial immunodiffusion
using Partigen plates
Calibrator constituents C1 inhibitor Fibrinogen, antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, and
C1 inhibitor
Intended Use of Control C1 inhibitor control is an N/T protein control is used
reagent assayed, mid level, for control of accuracy and
intralaboratory quality control precision in the
for assessment of precision and immunochemical
analytical bias on the determination of fibrinogen,
Dimension Vista System in the antithrombin III,
quantitative determination of C1 plasminogen, fibronectin, and
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			vitro diagnostic test for the
quantitative measurement of
C1 inhibitor in human
serum and plasma on the
Dimension Vista Systems.
Measurement of C1
inhibitor aids in the
diagnosis of hereditary
angioneurotic edema
(increased blood vessel
permeability causing
swelling of tissues) and a
rare form of angioedemia
associated with lymphoma
(lymph node cancer)			for the quantitative
determination of C1
inhibitor (C1-inactivator,
C1-esterase inhibitor) in
human plasma and serum
using the BN Systems		
Assay testing principle			Immuno-nephelometry			Same		
Assay reagent antibody			Polyclonal rabbit anti-C1
inhibitor antibdoy			Same		
Assay reportable range			0.03 to 0.40 g/L			Same		
Calibrator reagent form			Lyophilized human plasma			Same		
Control reagent form			Lyophilized human plasma			Same		
Control concentration range			1.4 – 3.5 g/L			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyzer system			Dimension Vista Systems			BN Systems		
Intended Use of Calibrator			The C1IN CAL is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the
calibration of the C1 inhibitor
method on the Dimension
Vista System			Establishment of reference
curves for the
immunochemical
determination of fibrinogen,
antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, C1
inhibitor using the BN
systems as well as fibronectin
by radial immunodiffusion
using Partigen plates		
Calibrator constituents			C1 inhibitor			Fibrinogen, antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, and
C1 inhibitor		
Intended Use of Control
reagent			C1 inhibitor control is an
assayed, mid level,
intralaboratory quality control
for assessment of precision and
analytical bias on the
Dimension Vista System in the
quantitative determination of C1			N/T protein control is used
for control of accuracy and
precision in the
immunochemical
determination of fibrinogen,
antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, and		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
inhibitor (C1IN) C1 inhibitor using the BN
systems, TurbiTime system
and by radial
immunodiffusion using
Partigen plates
Control constituents C1 inhibitor Fibrinogen, antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, and
C1 inhibitor
The Indications for use for the predicate device system and the proposed device system
are similar enough that there is no therapeutic or diagnostic effect altering effectiveness.
The technological characteristics for the predicate device system and the proposed device
system are similar enough that no new safety or effectiveness questions are raised.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
There are no standard reference preparations or materials for C1 inhibitor. The following
guidelines for performance of studies were utilized:
Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute Guideline EP5-A2, “Evaluation of Precision
Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods”
Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute Guideline EP7-A2, “Interference Testing in Clinical
Chemistry”
L. Test Principle:
The assay uses the principle of immune precipitation of C1 inhibitor with specific antiserum
(nephelometry) as the technological method to measure C1 inhibitor in human plasma or
serum. When C1 inhibitor in serum or plasma immunochemically binds with the supplied
antiserum, complexes are formed. When a beam of light passes through a solution
containing the complexes light is scattered and the intensity of scattered light is proportional
to the concentration of C1 inhibitor in the specimen. The amount scattered using samples
containing known defined amounts of C1 inhibitor are utilized to create a calibration curve to
relate the intensity of scattered light from unknown samples with the intensity of scattered
light from the samples with known concentrations of C1 inhibitor. The calibrator system in
this device uses 5 different concentrations and has an analytical measurement range of 3.0 to
40.0 mg/dL C1 inhibitor. For a serum or plasma specimen of unknown value, an initial
dilution of the specimen of 1:2.5 is performed by the instrument. The Dimension Vista
System calculates the concentration of C1 inhibitor in mg/dL under usual calibration
conditions. Turbidity and particles in the specimen may interfere with the determination.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Utilizing CLSI guideline EP5, serum and plasma specimens at 2 different
concentrations were tested in duplicate twice a day for 20 days. Additionally, the
control was tested in a similar manner. Repeatability (within run) and within-lab
standard deviations and percent coefficients of variation were calculated using
analysis of variance. The data are summarized as follows:
Material Mean Repeatability Within-lab
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			inhibitor (C1IN)			C1 inhibitor using the BN
systems, TurbiTime system
and by radial
immunodiffusion using
Partigen plates		
Control constituents			C1 inhibitor			Fibrinogen, antithrombin III,
plasminogen, fibronectin, and
C1 inhibitor		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Material	Mean	Repeatability	Within-lab

--- Page 5 ---
(mg/dL) %CV %CV
Positive 20 mg/dL 2.7% 3.3%
control
Serum pool 7 mg/dL 2.4% 5.2%
Serum pool 37 mg/dL 2.7% 3.2%
Plasma pool 30 mg/dL 2.5% 3.1%
Plasma pool 37 mg/dL 2.2% 3.0%
Accuracy determination:
As a measure of accuracy highly purified C1 inhibitor at 26 mg/dL was measured in
the proposed assay in 5 replicates. The percent recovery (observed concentration
divided by known concentration, expressed as a percentage) was calculated for the 5
replicates. The mean percent recovery was 98.8% (ranging from 95.7% to 103.4%.
The acceptance criterion was ±15% deviation from the nominal value (%recovery
ranging from 85% to 115%). All tested replicates met this acceptance criterion.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity of sample result on dilution was assessed using a single sample with a high
C1 inhibitor concentration. The sample was diluted 11 times with system diluent
from 41 mg/dL to 3 mg/dL. Each of the 11 dilutions was tested in the proposed assay
in 5 replicates. Linearity was assessed using linear regression where the x-axis is the
theoretical concentration on dilution and y-axis is the observed mean value of each of
11 dilutions. The acceptance criteria were a slope between 0.9 and 1.1 and a
correlation coefficient greater than or equal to 0.95. The slope of the best fit line was
0.981 with a correlation coefficient of 0.98. The acceptance criteria were met.
Hook effect
The possibility of a hook effect was evaluated using a single sample with a value
above the assay range in the proposed and predicate assay. A sample with a value of
108 mg/dL on the predicate assay was tested using the proposed assay. The resulting
value in the proposed assay was > 4 mg/dL, above the assay range of the proposed
assay.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
No standard reference material for C1 inhibitor is available at present. A
concentrated pool of human plasma containing C1 inhibitor is designated a Master
Calibrator. I t is assigned a value by the assay using highly purified C1 inhibitor
protein preparation as a calibrator. A commercial calibrator lot preparation is
prepared by dilution to a target concentration. The commercial lot is assigned a value
by the assay in multiple replicates of multiple runs on at least 2 instruments using the
Master Calibrator to generate several calibration curves. The commercial lot is
vialed, labeled, and packaged for shipment.
d. Detection limit:
Three samples with 3 mg/dL (the lower limit of the reportable range) were measured
in triplicate in 5 runs in one day to validate the limit of quantitation for the assay.
The mean, standard deviation, %coefficient of variation, and percent bias were
calculated for the 15 replicates. The acceptance criterion of ±30% bias was met.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	(mg/dL)	%CV	%CV
Positive
control	20 mg/dL	2.7%	3.3%
Serum pool	7 mg/dL	2.4%	5.2%
Serum pool	37 mg/dL	2.7%	3.2%
Plasma pool	30 mg/dL	2.5%	3.1%
Plasma pool	37 mg/dL	2.2%	3.0%

--- Page 6 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Interferences were assessed using CLSI document EP7 to determine the effect of
endogeneous and exogeneous substances on the assay. For all interfering substances,
except rheumatoid factor, the acceptance criterion for percent bias was ±10%.
Interference was assessed by testing a control sample with or without addition of the
interfering substance. Bias was calculated as the percentage of concentration in the
presence of substance to the concentration in the absence of substance. To assess
interference from rheumatoid factor samples with concentrations greater than 470
IU/ml were mixed in equal volume with samples without rheumatoid factor. The
samples were tested in the assay and percent recovery of C1 inhibitor was calculated.
The acceptance criterion of ±10% deviation was used. For the substances tested no
significant interference was detected in the proposed assay. The complete list of
tested interfering substances is listed in the labeling. The labeling states that at the
concentrations of interfering substances tested, there is less than 10% interference at
C1 inhibitor concentrations of 23 to 38.7 mg/dL.
f. Assay cut-off:
As described in the labeling, the range of values expected from normal donors is 21 –
39 mg/dL [0.21 – 0.39 g/L]. Samples from 370 healthy Central European donors
were used to establish this reference interval. It represents the range from the 2.5th to
97.5th percentile determined using the predicate device.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Assay results of the proposed assay were compared with results of the predicate assay
(N antisera on the BN Prospec system) using 67 serum and 129 plasma samples
ranging from 3 to 39 mg/dL. Passing-Bablok regression analysis was performed on
results of the two assays. The slope of the best fit regression line was 0.915 (95%
confidence interval 0.903 to 0.928). The intercept of the best fit line was 0.006 (95%
confidence interval 0.3 to 0.8 mg/dL). The Pearson correlation coefficient was 0.993.
b. Matrix comparison:
A comparison of test results using three specimen types (serum, lithium heparin
plasma, and sodium heparin plasma) was performed on 10 matched specimens.
Linear regression analysis was performed to show agreement of values between
serum and plasma samples. The range of C1 inhibitor concentrations in the 10
samples was 3 to 33 mg/dL. The slope of the best fit line of sodium heparin plasma
and lithium heparin plasma vs. serum was 0.94 (95% confidence interval for lithium
heparin vs. serum 0.931 to 0.96; 95% confidence interval for sodium heparin vs.
serum 0.917 to 0.97). The correlation coefficient was 1.0 and 0.998 for lithium and
sodium heparin, respectively vs. serum. The standard error in value in lithium or
sodium plasma for a given serum value was 1 and 0.0 mg/dL, respectively.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
None determined
b. Clinical specificity:
None determined
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
6

--- Page 7 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
None determined
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The concentration of C1 inhibitor expected in a normal healthy population is 21 – 39
mg/dL when using this assay system. Each laboratory should verify or establish its own
expected range of values using this assay system.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7