
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k072204
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Not applicable – calibrator for Microalbumin
D. Type of Test:
Calibrators for ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin and Microalbumin_2 test systems
E. Applicant:
Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin Calibrators
ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin_2 Calibrators
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Section 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX, Calibrator, Multi-analyte mixture
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin Calibrators are for in vitro diagnostic use
in the calibration of ADVIA Chemistry systems for the ADVIA Chemistry
Microalbumin method (this method is used for in vitro quantitation of albumin in
1

--- Page 2 ---
urine).
The ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin_2 Calibrators are for in vitro diagnostic
use in the calibration of ADVIA Chemistry systems for the ADVIA Chemistry
Microalbumin_2 method (this method is used for in vitro quantitation of albumin
in urine).
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with ADVIA Chemistry systems
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA® Chemistry Microalbumin Calibrators and ADVIA® Chemistry
Microalbumin_2 Calibrators are aqueous, buffered solutions containing varying
concentrations of human serum albumin. Five (5) vials of each calibrator level are
provided (2 mL each). The Microalbumin Calibrators have expected values (lot
specific) of 1, 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg/dL, and the Microalbumin_2 Calibrators have
expected values (lot specific) of 1, 4, 10, 20, and 40 mg/dL.
The calibrators are liquid and ready to use.
The human blood used in the manufacture of these calibrators has been tested using
FDA approved methods and found to be nonreactive for HBsAg and antibodies to
HCV and HIV-1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
DCL Microalbumin Multi-Calibrator Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042243
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use For in vitro diagnostic For in vitro diagnostic
use in the calibration of use as a calibrator for the
ADVIA Chemistry DCL Microalbumin
systems for the Assay for quantitation of
Microalbumin method or albumin in human urine
Microalbumin_2 method
(for quantitation of
albumin in urine)
Matrix same Liquid, ready-to-use
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			For in vitro diagnostic
use in the calibration of
ADVIA Chemistry
systems for the
Microalbumin method or
Microalbumin_2 method
(for quantitation of
albumin in urine)			For in vitro diagnostic
use as a calibrator for the
DCL Microalbumin
Assay for quantitation of
albumin in human urine		
Matrix			same			Liquid, ready-to-use		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Calibrator levels 5 levels, values are lot 6 levels, values are lot
specific specific
Stability Shelf life 2 years when Unopened calibrators are
unopened and stored at stable until expiration
2-8°C. date when stored at
2-8°C
Microalbumin: Once Once opened, stable for
opened, stable for 28 30 days at 2-8°C.
days at 2-8°C.
Microalbumin_2: Once
opened, stable for 60
days at 2-8°C.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA/CDRH Guidance for Industry: Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators (issued February 22, 1999)
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: The Microalbumin and Microalbumin_2 calibrators are
traceable to Master lots of the Microalbumin and Microalbumin_2 calibrators
which are assayed against an internally prepared, highly purified human
serum albumin standard.
The value assignment process consists of assaying and comparing new lots of
calibrators and Master lots in a nested test protocol using the appropriate
ADVIA Chemistry Microalbumin reagent on the ADVIA1650 analyzer. The
final value assigned to each analyte is lot specific and is found on the
Assigned Calibrator Value sheet that is provided with the product.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Calibrator levels			5 levels, values are lot
specific			6 levels, values are lot
specific		
Stability			Shelf life 2 years when
unopened and stored at
2-8°C.
Microalbumin: Once
opened, stable for 28
days at 2-8°C.
Microalbumin_2: Once
opened, stable for 60
days at 2-8°C.			Unopened calibrators are
stable until expiration
date when stored at
2-8°C
Once opened, stable for
30 days at 2-8°C.		

--- Page 4 ---
Stability: The shelf-life and open-vial stability of Microalbumin and
Microalbumin_2 calibrators when stored at 2-8°C have been demonstrated
using real time and accelerated stability data and predetermined acceptance
criteria. The protocols were reviewed and found to be acceptable.
For both the Microalbumin and Microalbumin_2 calibrators, the sponsor
claims a shelf life of 2 years when unopened and stored at 2-8°C.
Once opened the Microalbumin and Microalbumin_2 calibrators are stable for
28 days and for 60 days respectively when stored at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
5