
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K072268
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
White Blood Cells (WBC)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
R&D Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
HC WBC Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JPK
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
HC WBC Hematology control is an assayed whole blood control designed to
monitor values obtained from analyzers that measure white blood cell counts in
whole blood.
2. Indication(s) for use:
It is established laboratory procedure to use stable controls to monitor the
performance of diagnostic tests. The HC WBC Hematology Control is designed to
monitor values obtained from analyzers that measure white blood cell counts in
whole blood.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use on the WBC HemoCue Analyzer
I. Device Description:
The HC WBC Hematology Control is an in-vitro diagnostic control composed of
human erythrocytes and bovine leukocytes in a plasma-like fluid with preservatives.
It is an assayed whole blood control designed to monitor values obtained from
analyzers that measure white blood cell counts in whole blood. It is sampled in the
same manner as a patient sample. It is supplied in a set of three vials (Low, Normal
and High) 2 mL each.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
CBC-3K Hematology Control
2. Predicate K number(s):
K904464
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item HC WBC Hematology Control CBC-3K Hematology Control
Intended Use An assayed whole blood An assayed whole blood
control designed to monitor control designed to monitor
values obtained from analyzers values on multi parameter
that measure white blood cell hematology cell counters.
counts in whole blood.
Base Matrix Composed of human Composed of human
erythrocytes, mammalian erythrocytes and mammalian
leukocytes and mammalian leukocytes suspended in a
platelets suspended in a plasma-like fluid with
plasma-like fluid with preservatives.
preservatives.
Biological Sources Human and Bovine Human, Bovine, Porcine,
Ostrich
Form Whole Blood Same
Open Vial Stability 14 days Same
Storage 2 C to 8 C until expiration date Same
(105 days)
Differences
Item HC WBC Hematology Control CBC-3K Hematology Control
Analytes WBC Only WBC plus: RBC, HGB,
HCT,MCV, MCH, MCHC,
RDW, Nuet%, Eos%,
Mono%, Lymph%, PLT,
MPV
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
It is established laboratory procedure to use stable controls to monitor the
performance of diagnostic tests. This control is composed of stable materials that
provide a means of monitoring the performance of hematology blood cell counters. It
is sampled in the same manner as a patient specimen.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			HC WBC Hematology Control			CBC-3K Hematology Control	
Intended Use			An assayed whole blood
control designed to monitor
values obtained from analyzers
that measure white blood cell
counts in whole blood.			An assayed whole blood
control designed to monitor
values on multi parameter
hematology cell counters.		
Base Matrix			Composed of human
erythrocytes, mammalian
leukocytes and mammalian
platelets suspended in a
plasma-like fluid with
preservatives.			Composed of human
erythrocytes and mammalian
leukocytes suspended in a
plasma-like fluid with
preservatives.		
Biological Sources			Human and Bovine			Human, Bovine, Porcine,
Ostrich		
Form			Whole Blood			Same		
Open Vial Stability			14 days			Same		
Storage			2 C to 8 C until expiration date
(105 days)			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			HC WBC Hematology Control			CBC-3K Hematology Control	
Analytes			WBC Only			WBC plus: RBC, HGB,
HCT,MCV, MCH, MCHC,
RDW, Nuet%, Eos%,
Mono%, Lymph%, PLT,
MPV		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Two to four runs were completed on two analyzers every fourteen days for all
three levels of control (3 lots) for 15 – 18 weeks. The goal was to ensure the
reproducibility of the control throughout the shelf life of 105 days. The CV
values for all three levels were < 5.5%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Assay value assignment:
Two HemoCue WBC analyzers were used for analyte assignment and stability
testing. The target values are chosen to span the expected medically relevant
decision points as well as to incorporate user needs. The Low Level means is
targeted at 2.7 – 3.3 x 103/µL, the Normal Level is targeted at 7.7 – 8.5 x
103/µL and the high level mean is targeted at 20.0 – 24.0 x 103/µL. The HC
WBC Control Value assignment protocol is based on current R&D assay
ranges for the same or similar instrumentation on other R&D products and
competitor’s assay ranges for the same instrument.
The number of repetitive runs is determined by a protocol that is based on the
reproducibility of that particular analyzer. Samples are analyzed throughout
the process for quality control checks. The product is assayed over a two-day
period, using two analyzers, two vials, and each sample run in duplicate.
Closed Vial Stability: Three lots of control material (low, normal, high) were
stored at 2 – 8o C and tested at real time points on two instruments. All data
points were within the established range and no significant changes in the
mean or variability. Expiration dating reflects the validated time period that
assures adequate performance throughout shelf life of 105 days.
Open Vial Stability: Three lots of control material (low, normal, high) were
tested at the end of their shelf life. The lots were stored at 2 – 8o C. One lot
has been evaluated through 14 days. No significant changes in the mean or
variability were observed. Two lots, nearing the end of their shelf life, will be
validated before release to support the label claim of 14 days.
4

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The target values are chosen to span the expected medically relevant decision
points as well as to incorporate user needs. The Low Level means is targeted at
2.7 – 3.3 x 103/µL, the Normal Level is targeted at 7.7 – 8.5 x 103/µL and the high
level mean is targeted at 20.0 – 24.0 x 103/µL.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

--- Page 7 ---
7