
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K072727
B. Purpose for Submission:
Special 510(k) for hardware and software modifications
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
HemoSense, INC
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Prothrombin Time Test
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The INRatio 2 PT Monitoring System consists of a monitor, disposable test strips,
user guide, quick reference guide, training video/DVD, and testing supplies.
2. Principles of Operation:
The INRatio 2 PT Monitoring System performs a modified version of the one-stage
prothrombin time test using a recombinant human thromboplastin reagent. The clot
formed in the prothrombin time reaction is detected by a change in the electrical
impedance of the sample during the coagulation process.
3. Modes of Operation:
Manual mode.
4. Specimen Identification:
Manual input
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Capillary blood is added directly to the test strip
6. Calibration:
Factory calibration. The monitor performs self-checks at start-up and throughout
the testing process.
7. Quality Control:
On board bi-level controls
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7750
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
GJS
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The INRatio 2 PT Monitoring System is used for the quantitative measurement of
prothrombin time (PT) in fresh, capillary whole blood. The INRatio 2 PT
Monitoring system is intended for use outside the body (in vitro diagnostic use)
by people taking warfarin and other oral anticoagulant (blood thinning) therapy
who need to monitor the clotting time of their blood. The INRatio 2 PT
Monitoring system is not intended to be used for screening purposes.
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
HemoSense INRatio (K020679)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Quantitative measurement same
of prothrombin time in
fresh capillary whole
blood
Sample Volume 15 ul same
QC Onboard bi-level controls same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Memory 120 tests 60 tests
Software- Access From various buttons Only from Menu button
Software – Printing No capability Able to
capability from memory
Display Screen LCD, FSTN, 44mmH x LCD, 128 x 64 matrix
58 mmW
Device size 5.9’H x 2.9” W x 1.8” D 6.2”H x 3” W x 2.25” D
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended Use			Quantitative measurement
of prothrombin time in
fresh capillary whole
blood			same	
Sample Volume			15 ul			same	
QC			Onboard bi-level controls			same	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Memory			120 tests			60 tests	
Software- Access			From various buttons			Only from Menu button	
Software – Printing
capability from memory			No capability			Able to	
Display Screen			LCD, FSTN, 44mmH x
58 mmW			LCD, 128 x 64 matrix	
Device size			5.9’H x 2.9” W x 1.8” D			6.2”H x 3” W x 2.25” D	

--- Page 4 ---
c. Linearity:
d. Carryover:
e. Interfering Substances:
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
As required for a Special 510(k), the Sponsor has provided a risk analysis as well
as a Declaration of Conformity with Design Controls indicating that development
activities were conducted under appropriate design controls procedures, and the
overall product specifications were met.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
4