
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K073178
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Hematocrit (HCT)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
R&D Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
HCT Extended Hematology Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology Quality Control Mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JPK, Mixture Hematology Quality Control
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
HCT Extended Hematology Control is an assayed whole blood control designed
to monitor values obtained from automated, semi-automated and manual methods.
2. Indication(s) for use:
It is established laboratory procedure to use a stable control to monitor the
performance of diagnostic tests. HCT Extended Hematology Control is an
assayed whole blood control designed to monitor values obtained from
automated, semi-automated and manual methods.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
HCT Extended Hematology Control is an in-vitro diagnostic reagent composed of
human erythrocytes suspended in a plasma-like fluid with preservatives. It is an
assayed whole blood control designed to monitor values obtained from automated,
semi-automated and manual methods. It is sampled in the same manner as a patient
specimen. It is supplied in two levels as Abnormal I and Abnormal II. Each vial
contains 3.0 mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
R&D Systems CBC-7 Hematology Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K843962
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
HCT Extended Hematology R&D Systems CBC-7
Control Hematology Control
Intended use An assayed whole blood Same
control designed to monitor
values obtained from
automated, semi-automated
and manual methods.
Biological Source Human Red Cells Human Red Cell, Porcine
Closed Vial Stability 2-8oC until expiration date Same
Differences
Device Predicate
HCT Extended Hematology R&D Systems CBC-7
Control Hematology Control
Base Matrix Human erythrocytes Human erythrocytes and
suspended in plasma like fluid simulated leukocytes
with preservatives. suspended in plasma like fluid
with preservatives.
Analytes Hematocrit only Hematocrit, WBC, RBC,
HGB, MCV, MCH, MCHC
Open Vial Stability 21 days 14 days
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
It is established laboratory practice to use a stable control to monitor the performance
of diagnostic tests. This control is composed of stable material that provides a mean
of monitoring the performance of automated, semi-automated and manual hematocrit
methods. It is sampled in the same manner as the patient specimen.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			HCT Extended Hematology
Control			R&D Systems CBC-7
Hematology Control		
Intended use			An assayed whole blood
control designed to monitor
values obtained from
automated, semi-automated
and manual methods.			Same		
Biological Source			Human Red Cells			Human Red Cell, Porcine		
Closed Vial Stability			2-8oC until expiration date			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
				Device			Predicate	
			HCT Extended Hematology
Control			R&D Systems CBC-7
Hematology Control		
Base Matrix			Human erythrocytes
suspended in plasma like fluid
with preservatives.			Human erythrocytes and
simulated leukocytes
suspended in plasma like fluid
with preservatives.		
Analytes			Hematocrit only			Hematocrit, WBC, RBC,
HGB, MCV, MCH, MCHC		
Open Vial Stability			21 days			14 days		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Three lots of control material were tested between 31 and 41 times to yield an
average of less than 5% CV.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: The HCT Hematology Value Assignment protocol is
based on current R&D assay ranges for the same or similar instrumentation on
other R&D products. One HemataSTAT II, one Microhematocrit Centrifuge,
and one Sysmex XE-2100 Automated Hematology Analyzer were used for the
value assignment. Means and ranges are chosen at extended stability of the
parameter and shifts in instrument calibration. Three lots each of Level I and
II were tested by the three methods (with multiple vials and replicate testing)
over approximately 4 days. The data was analyzed using linear regression. All
CV values were acceptable.
Open vial stability testing was performed using three lots of Level I and
Level II controls on one instrument of each method. Each lot was stored at 2-
8oC, allowed to warm to room temperature for 15 minutes, analyzed, and
returned to 2-8oC. Data was collected for 6-10 days over the 21 day period.
All levels were with in the established range.
Closed vial stability testing was performed on three lots of Level I and Level
II (stored at 2-8oC) and tested at real time points on one instrument of each
method. All levels were within the established range. Expiration dating
reflects the validated time period that assures adequate device performance
throughout shelf life of 75 days.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The target mean values are initially specified at a hematocrit 57-63% for Level I
and 66-74% for Level 2. Ranges around the mean are set at ± 5% for Level 1 and
± 6% for Level 2. Users are instructed to refer to the assay table in the labeling for
specific instrument models ranges. It is recommended for greater sensitivity that
each laboratory should establish its own mean and acceptable range.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6