
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k073699
B. Purpose for Submission:
New submission for an accessory data management software application for glucose
meters
C. Measurand:
Whole Blood Glucose
D. Type of Test:
The MyCare Team (MCT)-Diabetes is a software-only medical device which serves
as an internet-based accessory which interfaces between the software in personal
glucose monitoring devices and the MCT general-purpose health management
database.
E. Applicant:
MyCare Team, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MCT-Diabetes
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec.- 862.1345-Glucose test system.
21CFR Sec.-862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I, respectively
3. Product code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over the Counter
JQP-Calculator/Data Processing Module, For Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications(s) for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The MCT-Diabetes™ software serves as an interface between the software in
personal glucose monitoring devices and a general purpose health management
database to assist in the review, analysis and evaluation of blood glucose test

--- Page 2 ---
results. MCT Diabetes is designed for home use and professional healthcare
settings.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
4. Special instrument requirements:
Compatible glucose meters for home use such as glucose meters by Roche
Diagnostics, Bayer, BD, Johnson & Johnson, Abbott, and Nova Biomedical.
I. Device Description:
MCT-Diabetes is a software-only device. MCT-Diabetes allows the patient to transfer
their blood glucose readings from their glucose meter(s) over a secure connection to
the MCT-Diabetes server. The glucose readings are then stored in a secure database
for the patient to review. MCT-Diabetes allows the patient to group their readings
into specific timeslots and then review their readings for each timeslot over long
periods of time. This type of analysis provides the patient with a better view of how
they are managing their diabetes and the convenience of viewing the output from all
blood glucose monitors in one place. The patient can then also allow others that assist
them in the management of their disease to view their data and send secure messages
back to the patient about their readings.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Home Diagnostics, Inc., TrackRecord Data Management Software
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k070593
3. Comparison with predicate:
2 of 9

--- Page 3 ---
MCT-Diabetes (New Predicate Device EQUIVALENT
Device) TrackRecord Data OR DIFFERENT
Management Software
(k070593)
COMPARISON OF GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
Indications for The MCT-Diabetes™ TrackRecord Data Equivalent
Use Statement software serves as an Management Software is
interface between the intended for use in the home
software in personal glucose or in clinical settings, for
monitoring devices and a single or multi-patient use,
general purpose health to assist people with
management database to diabetes as well as their
assist in the review, analysis healthcare professionals in
and evaluation of blood the review, analysis and
glucose test results. MCT evaluation of historical
Diabetes is designed for blood glucose test results to
home use and professional support effective diabetes
healthcare settings. management.
Intended Use Home use or Clinical Assist Home use or Clinical Assist Equivalent
diabetics, families, and diabetics, families, and
professionals in professionals in
management of blood management of blood
glucose Support diabetes glucose Support diabetes
management Single or management Single or
multi-patient use multi-patient use
Data Source Compile data from multiple Compile data from Home Equivalent
different brands of glucose Diagnostics brand glucose
meters for display in one meters
place on user's personal
computer
Classification NBW, system, test, blood NBW, system, test, blood Equivalent
glucose, over the counter glucose, over the counter
862.1345, Class II JQP, 862.1345, Class II JQP,
calculator/data processing calculator/data processing
module, for clinical use, module, for clinical use,
862.2100, Class I 862.2100, Class I
Panel Clinical Chemistry Clinical Chemistry Equivalent
Software Use Single (individual) or Single or multiple user Equivalent
multiple user (clinical) settings
settings
Use in Clinic Patient list available Search for specific patient Equivalent
Report types Logbook Logbook Equivalent
Readings Line Chart Glucose Trend
Average Bar Chart Pie Chart (Conformance)
Percentage Pie Chart Summary
3 of 9

[Table 1 on page 3]
	MCT-Diabetes (New
Device)	Predicate Device
TrackRecord Data
Management Software
(k070593)	EQUIVALENT
OR DIFFERENT
COMPARISON OF GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS			
Indications for
Use Statement	The MCT-Diabetes™
software serves as an
interface between the
software in personal glucose
monitoring devices and a
general purpose health
management database to
assist in the review, analysis
and evaluation of blood
glucose test results. MCT
Diabetes is designed for
home use and professional
healthcare settings.	TrackRecord Data
Management Software is
intended for use in the home
or in clinical settings, for
single or multi-patient use,
to assist people with
diabetes as well as their
healthcare professionals in
the review, analysis and
evaluation of historical
blood glucose test results to
support effective diabetes
management.	Equivalent
Intended Use	Home use or Clinical Assist
diabetics, families, and
professionals in
management of blood
glucose Support diabetes
management Single or
multi-patient use	Home use or Clinical Assist
diabetics, families, and
professionals in
management of blood
glucose Support diabetes
management Single or
multi-patient use	Equivalent
Data Source	Compile data from multiple
different brands of glucose
meters for display in one
place on user's personal
computer	Compile data from Home
Diagnostics brand glucose
meters	Equivalent
Classification	NBW, system, test, blood
glucose, over the counter
862.1345, Class II JQP,
calculator/data processing
module, for clinical use,
862.2100, Class I	NBW, system, test, blood
glucose, over the counter
862.1345, Class II JQP,
calculator/data processing
module, for clinical use,
862.2100, Class I	Equivalent
Panel	Clinical Chemistry	Clinical Chemistry	Equivalent
Software Use	Single (individual) or
multiple user (clinical)
settings	Single or multiple user
settings	Equivalent
Use in Clinic	Patient list available	Search for specific patient	Equivalent

--- Page 4 ---
MCT-Diabetes (New Predicate Device EQUIVALENT
Device) TrackRecord Data OR DIFFERENT
Management Software
(k070593)
Percentage Readings by
Time of Day
COMPARISON OF TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
Special Glucose Wide range of supported Home Diagnostics brand Different
Monitor meters are listed on website; blood glucose meters only
However, the same
Instrument
Requirements As additional software validation/verifica-
protocols are obtained and tion of software
devices are validated, protocols (from
capabilities will be blood glucose
broadened to include other manufacturers)
with
blood glucose meters MyCare Team
software prior to
addition to list
Capable of
Yes. Acceptable devices Yes, for Home Diagnostics Equivalent
uploading
data from are listed and include the brand monitors.
various
glucose majority of currently
monitoring Software driver must be
devices? available devices. uploaded on the device or
Software Software resides on the installed on the PC
download
requirements Internet and not on the
User's Personal Computer
(PC)
User's Personal Windows 98 Second Edition Windows 98 Second Edition Equivalent
Computer (PC) (SE), Windows 2000 and (SE), Windows 2000 and
Requirements Windows XP Home and Windows XP Home and
Professional Professional
600 MHz Intel Pentium III 600 MHz Intel Pentium III Equivalent
or equivalent or equivalent
Minimum 128 MB RAM Minimum 128 MB RAM Equivalent
100-200 MB RAM used 100-200 MB RAM used Equivalent
User's Personal
Computer (PC)
Requirements
4 of 9

[Table 1 on page 4]
	MCT-Diabetes (New
Device)	Predicate Device
TrackRecord Data
Management Software
(k070593)	EQUIVALENT
OR DIFFERENT		
	Percentage Readings by
Time of Day				
COMPARISON OF TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS					
Special Glucose
Monitor
Instrument
Requirements	Wide range of supported
meters are listed on website;
As additional software
protocols are obtained and
devices are validated,
capabilities will be
broadened to include other
blood glucose meters	Home Diagnostics brand
blood glucose meters only		Different	
			However, the same		
				validation/verifica-	
				tion of software	
				protocols (from	
				blood glucose	
				manufacturers)	
				with	
				MyCare Team	
				software prior to	
				addition to list	
Capable of
uploading
data from
various
glucose
monitoring
devices?
Software
download
requirements	Yes. Acceptable devices
are listed and include the
majority of currently
available devices.
Software resides on the
Internet and not on the
User's Personal Computer
(PC)	Yes, for Home Diagnostics
brand monitors.
Software driver must be
uploaded on the device or
installed on the PC	Equivalent		
User's Personal
Computer (PC)
Requirements
User's Personal
Computer (PC)
Requirements	Windows 98 Second Edition
(SE), Windows 2000 and
Windows XP Home and
Professional
600 MHz Intel Pentium III
or equivalent
Minimum 128 MB RAM
100-200 MB RAM used	Windows 98 Second Edition
(SE), Windows 2000 and
Windows XP Home and
Professional
600 MHz Intel Pentium III
or equivalent
Minimum 128 MB RAM
100-200 MB RAM used	Equivalent
Equivalent
Equivalent
Equivalent		

--- Page 5 ---
MCT-Diabetes (New Predicate Device EQUIVALENT
Device) TrackRecord Data OR DIFFERENT
Management Software
(k070593)
during installation and 100 during installation and 100
MB used after installation MB used after installation
CD ROM drive CD ROM drive Equivalent
Manufacturer's required 9-pin/25-pin COM or USB Equivalent
cable can be ordered as a port required with a serial or
service to the customer. USB data cable CD ROM
required
Installed from Installed using CD Different
MyCareTeam Website Installation is
performed via the
Internet; thus, no
CD is required
Technical
Yes Yes Equivalent
Support
User's Manual Available on Internet while Link via icon Equivalent Both
using program ("Help programs have
System") Help system (but
different access)
Cable
Manufacturer cable ordered Serial cable, cable Equivalent
Availability
for customer at their available separately
request; original
manufacturer equipment
with no re-labeling
Auto-detect
Yes Yes Equivalent
COM port
Installation of Installed from internet link Installed using CD Equivalent
program
DATA INPUT AND OUTPUT
Required data
Yes Yes Equivalent
on
patient entry
includes
patient ID,
name,
address, etc.
Insurance
No Yes Different
information
Physician
Multiple individuals Multiple individuals Equivalent
information
Diabetes
Multiple individuals Multiple individuals Equivalent
educator
information
Types of
Insulin list, medication list, Insulin list and medication Different
information
that can be exercise, blood pressure list
More information
manually
5 of 9

[Table 1 on page 5]
	MCT-Diabetes (New
Device)	Predicate Device
TrackRecord Data
Management Software
(k070593)	EQUIVALENT
OR DIFFERENT		
	during installation and 100	during installation and 100			
	MB used after installation	MB used after installation			
	CD ROM drive	CD ROM drive	Equivalent		
	Manufacturer's required
cable can be ordered as a
service to the customer.	9-pin/25-pin COM or USB
port required with a serial or
USB data cable CD ROM
required	Equivalent		
	Installed from
MyCareTeam Website	Installed using CD		Different	
				Installation is	
				performed via the	
				Internet; thus, no	
				CD is required	
Technical
Support	Yes	Yes	Equivalent		
User's Manual	Available on Internet while
using program ("Help
System")	Link via icon	Equivalent Both
programs have
Help system (but
different access)		
Cable
Availability	Manufacturer cable ordered
for customer at their
request; original
manufacturer equipment
with no re-labeling	Serial cable, cable
available separately	Equivalent		
Auto-detect
COM port	Yes	Yes	Equivalent		
Installation of
program	Installed from internet link	Installed using CD	Equivalent		
DATA INPUT AND OUTPUT					
Required data
on
patient entry
includes
patient ID,
name,
address, etc.	Yes	Yes	Equivalent		
Insurance
information	No	Yes	Different		
Physician
information	Multiple individuals	Multiple individuals	Equivalent		
Diabetes
educator
information	Multiple individuals	Multiple individuals	Equivalent		
			Different		
			More information		

--- Page 6 ---
MCT-Diabetes (New Predicate Device EQUIVALENT
Device) TrackRecord Data OR DIFFERENT
Management Software
(k070593)
entered data, laboratory results can be entered in
MCT-Diabetes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Software guidance documents:
• Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices. Issued May 11, 2005.
• General Principles of Software Validation. Issued January 11, 2002.
• Guidance for Off-the-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices. Issued September
9, 1999.
• Guidance for Industry – Cybersecurity for Networked Medical Devices
Containing Off-the-Shelf (OTS) Software. Issued January 14, 2005.
Non-Software guidance and standards
• ISO 15197: 2003. In vitro diagnostic test systems – Requirements for blood-
glucose monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus. First
edition.
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Total Product Life Cycle for Portable
Invasive Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems. Issued 10/24/2006.
• ISO 14971: 2007. Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical
devices. Second edition.
L. Test Principle:
The MyCare Team (MCT)-Diabetes software is an accessory to compatible meters,
which use specific test principles such as in Accu-Chek Active (k021827), Accu-
Chek Advantage (k000365), Accu-Chek Aviva (k043474), Accu-Chek Compact
(k022171), Accu-Chek Compact Plus (k031755), Accu-Chek Complete (k000364),
Ascensia Breeze (k024062), Ascensia Breeze 2 (k062347), Ascensia Contour
(k023657), Ascensia Dex 2 (k963500), Ascensia Elite XL (k951537), BD Logic
(k022581), BD Paradigm Link (k040603), Lifescan OneTouch Profile (k950727),
Lifescan OneTouch Ultra (k011479), Lifescan OneTouch Ultra 2 (k053529), Lifescan
OneTouch Ultra Smart (k021819), MediSense Optium (k051213), MediSense
Precision Xtra (k040814), Nova Max (k040603), TheraSense FreeStyle (k012014),
TheraSense FreeStyle Freedom (k051839), TheraSense FreeStyle Lite (k070850).
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
see above associated devices
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
see above associated devices
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
see above associated devices
d. Detection limit:
6 of 9

[Table 1 on page 6]
	MCT-Diabetes (New
Device)	Predicate Device
TrackRecord Data
Management Software
(k070593)	EQUIVALENT
OR DIFFERENT		
entered	data, laboratory results			can be entered in	
				MCT-Diabetes	

--- Page 7 ---
see above associated devices
e. Analytical specificity:
see above associated devices
f. Assay cut-off:
see above associated devices
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
see above associated devices
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Usability studies were designed to test human factors such as ease of
operation, readability of the measured results, unambiguous messages to the
user, and evaluation of the instructions for use (i.e., the help features) as
described in Sections 4.4 and 8.4 of ISO 15197:2003 and in Section 3 of the
FDA Total Product Life Cycle guidance document (2006). As recommended
in Section 8.3 of ISO 15197, study participants were given two surveys to
evaluate their understanding of the system and were not given additional
training, instructions, or assistance than those routinely provided with the
MCT-Diabetes system. The studies were conducted in September and October
2006, respectively, with 47 completed responders out of 65 total participants.
The survey group included a near-even representation of individuals with
Type 1 and Type II diabetes, including both children and adults. All responses
were kept confidential and participants remained anonymous throughout both
surveys. Data were reported in aggregate and no identifying information was
linked back to individual responses.
The human factors that were most applicable to this software-only device are
the user characteristics (individuals with vision problems must be able to
understand the system) and the device-user interface ensuring ease of
operation, readability of the result, and unambiguous messages to the user.
The first survey was designed to evaluate the set up process for MCT-
Diabetes, including registering with MyCare Team, uploading of blood
glucose data, and the initial display of the blood glucose data. The outcome of
this survey resulted in the following changes to the MCT-Diabetes software:
7 of 9

--- Page 8 ---
• Enhancements to the Active X control for uploading data from various
meters in order to make the upload process proceed more smoothly from
USB ports.
• Support for additional meters
• Additional error-checking and updated help files for users
The second survey was designed to evaluate the usability experience for the
participants including evaluations of all features of the MCT-Diabetes
software. The outcome of this survey resulted in the following changes to the
MCT-Diabetes software:
• Redesign of the user interface for a number of web pages, including new
icons for better readability and navigation.
• Addition of new features & functionality, including date of last upload,
user setting of blood glucose ranges, and user adjustment of times of day
The usability testing and results was factored appropriately into the Risk
Analysis. As problems were identified, software changes were made and
documented. The final version after usability testing was identified as Version
2.0.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
see above associated devices
N. Instrument Name:
MyCare Team, Inc, MCT-Diabetes software
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
MCT-Diabetes provides a Web Based user interface that is compatible with
Microsoft Internet Explorer and Mozilla FireFox. The data upload control is not
directly accessible by the user, but only as provided through the web based user
interface.
• Windows 98 Second Edition (SE), Windows 2000 and Windows XP Home
and Professional
• 600 MHz Intel Pentium III or equivalent
• Minimum 128 MB RAM
• 100-200 MB RAM used
2. Software:
8 of 9

--- Page 9 ---
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Meter controlled, by time and date stamp
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable
5. Calibration:
Not Applicable
6. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
9 of 9