
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k080848
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device for US consumer market
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Breath Alcohol
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative (electrochemical fuel cell sensor)
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The AlcoHAWK PT-500 Digital Alcohol Detector is a self-contained unit with a
disposable plastic mouthpiece for breath sampling. The mouthpiece is inserted
into the BREATH PIPE IN opening on the left side of the device. Opposite the
BREATH PIPE IN opening is the BREATH OUT opening. The display screen
displays the user’s blood alcohol equivalent concentration to three decimal places
plus the temperature, text prompts and error messages. Below the display are the
power button and enter and select buttons for menu navigation. Two AA batteries
are inserted into a compartment on the back of the unit. The device is powered on
by depressing the power button for approximately 1 second. The unit will beep
and display “initializing” followed by “test” and “options” displayed
simultaneously. To initiate a test, the user presses the enter button, after which the
unit will display “Blow now”. The unit beeps when the user starts blowing and
beeps again when the breath sample has been obtained. The unit then displays
“processing” followed by the BAC measurement approximately 3 seconds later.
2. Principle of Operation:
The electrochemical fuel cell alcohol sensor in this device reacts with exhaled
alcohol from the breath. As the alcohol gas passes through the cell, it initiates a
chemical reaction resulting in a voltage change. This voltage change can then be
converted to a breath alcohol concentration which in turn is converted to a blood
alcohol concentration.

--- Page 2 ---
3. Modes of Operation:
This device has only one mode of operation. See section 2 above.
4. Specimen Identification:
There is no mechanism to identify the specimen.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The user provides a breath sample by exhaling into the device.
6. Calibration:
The device is calibrated at the factory and sent directly to the end user. The
sponsor recommends a recalibration interval of every 200 tests or every six to
twelve months if less than 200 tests have been performed. These intervals are
based on calibration stability data collected internally. The unit must be sent back
to the factory for calibration.
7. Quality Control:
There are no external quality controls available for these types of devices for
over-the-counter use.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes X or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3050
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3 Product code:
DJZ

--- Page 3 ---
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
This device is intended to measure alcohol in human breath. Measurements
obtained by this device are used in the diagnosis of alcohol intoxication.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For over the counter use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
AlcoHAWK Precision Digital Alcohol Detector
k043188
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item AlcoHAWK PT500 Predicate
Intended to measure
alcohol in human breath.
Measurements
Intended
Same obtained by this device
Use/Indications for Use
are used in the diagnosis
of alcohol intoxication.
Blowing Time Same 5 seconds
Measuring Range Same 0.00 – 0.40 % BAC
Mouthpiece Same Disposable, Replaceable
Display Same 4 digit LCD
Weight 147 grams 130 grams
General Public (Over the
Intended User Same
Counter Use)

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			AlcoHAWK PT500			Predicate	
								
Intended
Use/Indications for Use			Same			Intended to measure
alcohol in human breath.
Measurements
obtained by this device
are used in the diagnosis
of alcohol intoxication.		
Blowing Time			Same			5 seconds		
Measuring Range			Same			0.00 – 0.40 % BAC		
Mouthpiece			Same			Disposable, Replaceable		
Display			Same			4 digit LCD		
Weight			147 grams			130 grams		
Intended User			Same			General Public (Over the
Counter Use)		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item AlcoHAWK PT500 Predicate
Power Source 2 AA batteries 9 volt battery
Warm-up Time 10 seconds 15 – 60 seconds
Electrochemical Fuel
Sensor type Semiconductor Oxide
Cell
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The sponsor claims conformance to the following standards:
a. Department of Transportation National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
[NHTSA Docket No. 94-004; Notice 2] Highway Safety Programs; Model
Specifications for Screening Devices to Measure Alcohol in Bodily Fluids
b. Electrical equipment for measurement, control and laboratory use EMC
requirements - Part 1 : general requirements - Modified by NF EN
61326/A1:199810 (C46-050/A1),NF EN 61326/A2:200109 (C46-050/A2),NF
EN 61326/A3:200405 (C46-050/A3)
c. Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). Part 4: testing and measurement
techniques. Section 2: electrostatic discharge immunity test.
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-3 : testing and measurement
d.
techniques - Radiated, radio-frequency, electromagnetic field immunity test
L. Test Principle:
The electrochemical fuel cell alcohol sensor in this device reacts with exhaled alcohol
from the breath. As the alcohol gas passes through the cell, it initiates a chemical
reaction resulting in a voltage change. This voltage change can then be converted to a
breath alcohol concentration which in turn is converted to a blood alcohol
concentration.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
This device has met the US Department of Transportation/ National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (NHTSA) requirements for breath alcohol screening devices.
a. Accuracy:
The sponsor performed a consumer study to determine if consumers could
correctly use and interpret the device using only the supplied User's Manual,
and to compare the results to a professional device (the Lifeloc FC10 plus).

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			AlcoHAWK PT500			Predicate	
Power Source			2 AA batteries			9 volt battery		
Warm-up Time			10 seconds			15 – 60 seconds		
Sensor type			Semiconductor Oxide			Electrochemical Fuel
Cell		

--- Page 5 ---
There were 99 paired comparisons, and the volunteers ranged in age from 22
to 65 years of age. Each participant took their breath alcohol reading with the
Alcohawk PT-500 and recorded the result. Immediately afterward, the
participants were administered a breath alcohol test using the Lifeloc FC10
plus operated by a trained individual. The breath alcohol concentrations
ranged from BAC of 0.000 % to 0.127 % (by the Lifeloc FC10). Linear
regression analysis of the data showed a slope of 0.9221, a y-intercept of 0 and
a correlation coefficient of 0.9647. After the study, participants were asked
questions about ease of use and interpretation. The results are presented
below:
Participant Information
Gender #
M 59
F 39
Total 98*
* One participant who provided a breath sample was unable
to complete the questionnaire.
Questions:
Neither
Strongly
Disagree Agree or Agree Strongly
Disagree
Disagree Agree
I found the device
easy to use 0 0 4 25 69
I understood how to
use the device after
0 0 0 21 77
reading the
instructions
I was able to easily
understand and
interpret the test
0 0 0 13 85
results displayed by
the device.

[Table 1 on page 5]
Participant Information
Gender #	
M	59
F	39
Total	98*

[Table 2 on page 5]
	Strongly
Disagree	Disagree	Neither
Agree or
Disagree	Agree	Strongly
Agree
I found the device
easy to use	0	0	4	25	69
I understood how to
use the device after
reading the
instructions	0	0	0	21	77
I was able to easily
understand and
interpret the test
results displayed by
the device.	0	0	0	13	85

--- Page 6 ---
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision and accuracy of this device has previously been demonstrated
through testing required by the US Department of Transportation. For
precision and accuracy, these requirements (referred to as Model
Specifications) consist of 20 trials at a Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) of
0.008, 20 trials at a BAC of 0.032, and 20 trials at a BAC of 0.000. Blood
Alcohol Concentrations are simulated in breath by a Breath Alcohol Sample
Simulator (BASS), which provides an alcohol-in-air test sample with known
alcohol concentrations, flow rate, and air composition. The acceptance criteria
for the Model Specifications are: not more than one negative result at 0.032
BAC, not more than one positive result at 0.008 BAC, and not more than one
negative greater than zero and no positives at 0.000 BAC. NOTE: for the
purposes of this study, a BAC of 0.020 is used to distinguish a positive from a
negative result.
The AlcoHAWK PT-500 met all of the applicable NHTSA requirements for
precision and accuracy.
c. Linearity:
This device will report concentrations from 0.00 to 0.400% BAC However,
the DOT Model Specifications require accuracy and precision testing up to a
concentration of 0.032 only; therefore, true linearity over the entire measuring
range of the device was not evaluated by DOT. This device met all of the
applicable NHTSA requirements for precision and accuracy as described
above.
d. Carryover:
Carryover studies are not required by NHTSA and were not performed using
this device.
e. Interfering Substances:
The DOT Model Specifications require testing with cigarette smoke to assess
any possible interference. Five trials are required at 0.000 BAC. An alcohol
free individual who smokes cigarettes is appropriate for this trial. The subject
is asked to smoke approximately one half of a cigarette. Within one minute
after smoking, or after a waiting period specified in the manufacturer’s
instructions*, the subject performs the breath alcohol test according to the
manufacturer’s instructions. The subject is then asked to smoke another
inhalation and repeat the test to produce a total of five trials. The acceptance
criterion for this trial is: no positive results. The Alcohawk PT-500 device had
no positive results.

--- Page 7 ---
*The manufacturer’s labeling instructs the user to wait 20 minutes after
smoking, eating, or drinking before taking a reading.
Other potential interferents were not evaluated with this device.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.