
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K080931
B. Purpose for Submission:
To determine substantial equivalence of the device for the detection of C. difficile A
& B in stool specimens. This an Intended Use claim extension to K072138
C. Measurand:
C. difficile toxins A & B
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative automated test on the VIDAS instrument using the enzyme linked
fluorescent assay (ELFA) technique
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VIDAS C. difficile Toxin A & B (CDAB) assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.2660, reagents, Clostridium difficile toxin
2. Classification:
Class 1
3. Product code:
LLH
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
83
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The VIDAS C. difficile Toxin A & B (CDAB) assay is an automated test for use
on the VIDAS instruments for the qualitative detection of Clostridium difficile
toxin A and toxin B in stool specimens using the ELFA technique (Enzyme-
Linked Fluorescent Assay). The VIDAS C. difficile toxin A & toxin B (CDAB)
assay is an aid for diagnosing Clostridium difficile associated disease (CDAD).
2. Indication for use:
The VIDAS C. difficile Toxin A & B (CDAB) assay is an automated test for use
on the VIDAS instruments for the qualitative detection of Clostridium difficile
toxin A and toxin B in stool specimens using the ELFA technique (Enzyme-
Linked Fluorescent Assay). The VIDAS C. difficile toxin A & toxin B (CDAB)
assay is an aid for diagnosing Clostridium difficile associated disease (CDAD).
3. Special conditions for use statement:
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
The VIDAS Instruments
I. Device Description:
The VIDAS CDAB kit is now indicated for use an aid for diagnosing Clostridium
difficile associated disease (CDAD). No changes were made to the predicate device.
The VIDAS CDAB kit consists of 60 ready to use reagent strips and 60 ready to use
solid phase receptacles (SPRs) whose interiors are coated with C. difficile rabbit
polyclonal anti-toxin A and mouse monoclonal anti-toxin B antibodies. It also
contains one standard (S1), one positive control Toxin A (C1), one negative control
(C2), one positive control Toxin B (C3), one sample diluent (R1) and one MLE card
containing the factory master calibration data required to calibrate the test.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
VIDAS CDAB Assay
2. Predicate K number:
2

--- Page 3 ---
K072138
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For the qualitative Same
detection of C.difficile
toxins A & B
Specimen Stool Same
Assay technique Automated Enzyme- Same
Linked Fluorescent Assay
(ELFA)
Capture and detection Rabbit polyclonal and Same
antibodies mouse monoclonal
Conjugate Mouse monoclonal Same
antibodies conjugated
with biotin
Sample volume 200µl liquid stool Same
200 mg semi-solid stool
Assay time ~ 75 mins Same
Limit of detection Toxin A > 7.73ng/ml Same
Toxin B > 4.55 ng/ml
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Extended claim As an aid in the diagnosis No claim for CDAD
of CDAD
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. “Review criteria for devices assisting in the diagnosis of C. difficile associated
diseases” ODE guidance 5/31/1990
2. “Protocols for determination of limits of detection and limits of quantitation.”
Approved guideline CLSI EP 17-A, Vol. 24, No. 34
L. Test Principle:
The assay principle combines a two-step immunoassay sandwich method with a final
fluorescent detection (ELFA). The SPR, a pipette tip-like device serves as the solid
phase as well as the pipetting device for the assay. Assay reagents are ready to use
and pre dispensed in the sealed reagent strips. Each of four reaction steps is
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
							
Intended Use			For the qualitative
detection of C.difficile
toxins A & B			Same	
Specimen			Stool			Same	
Assay technique			Automated Enzyme-
Linked Fluorescent Assay
(ELFA)			Same	
Capture and detection
antibodies			Rabbit polyclonal and
mouse monoclonal			Same	
Conjugate			Mouse monoclonal
antibodies conjugated
with biotin			Same	
Sample volume			200µl liquid stool
200 mg semi-solid stool			Same	
Assay time			~ 75 mins			Same	
Limit of detection			Toxin A > 7.73ng/ml
Toxin B > 4.55 ng/ml			Same	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Extended claim			As an aid in the diagnosis
of CDAD			No claim for CDAD		

--- Page 4 ---
performed automatically by the VIDAS. The sample/conjugate mixture is cycled in
and out of the SPR several times. Each step is followed by a wash cycle which
eliminates unbound components. Step 1: Toxin A and/or B present in the sample
binds with the anti-toxin A & B antibodies coated on the interior wall of the SPR.
Step 2: Binding occurs between toxins and antibodies conjugated with biotin. Step 3:
Presence of biotin is detected by incubation with streptavidin conjugated with
alkaline phosphatase. Step 4: Two detection steps are performed successively.
Alkaline phosphatase catalyzes hydrolysis of the substrate into a fluorescent product.
Fluorescence is measured at 450 nm. Results are automatically calculated by the
VIDAS. Test values as well as the qualitative result (positive, negative or equivocal)
are provided on the result sheet for each sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Six pools of samples namely two negative, two equivocal, three positive (low,
medium and high) were tested in duplicate in two runs per day over six days
at each of three sites Total precision was 7.4 – 37.6% C.V. intra- assay
precision was 2.9 – 26.3% C.V. and inter-assay precision was 6.8 – 26.8%
C.V.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability studies were performed to determine the stability of the kit,
specimen, standard, and control.
d. Detection limit:
The detection limit for Toxin A is > 7.73ng/ml and for Toxin B >4.55ng/ml
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity and interference studies were performed in the original
submission. No changes were made from the predicate device. An additional
interference study was conducted to evaluate the potential interference of anti-
diarrhea as well as therapeutic drugs. No interference was observed with
vancomycin at 5mg/ml; metronidazole at 2mg/ml; Pepto-Bismol and Imodium
liquid and tablets as well as their active ingredients Loperamide, bismuth
subsalicylate and salicylate.
4

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
The assay cut off is as follows:
Test value <0.13 is a negative result; test value >0.13 to <0.37 is equivocal and
test value >0.37 is a positive result. The test value is equal to the patient relative
fluorescence value/ standard relative fluorescence value.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The VIDAS CDAB assay was compared to a commercial EIA at two clinical
testing sites. At site one, 623 samples were tested and at site two, 388
samples were tested. Results from both sites were as follows:
Positive agreement 81.3% (73.4 – 87.6 % C.I.)
Negative agreement 99.5% (98.8 – 99.9% C.I.)
Overall agreement 97.1% (95.9 – 98.1% C.I.)
Forty-two samples were found equivocal and calculations were done with the
equivocal samples considered first as negative and then as positive. Results
from both sites were as follows:
When equivocal samples were considered as negative, positive agreement was
75.9% (67.9 – 82.8% C.I.) and negative agreement was 99.5% (98.8 - 99.9 %
C.I.). Overall agreement was 96.3% (95.0 – 97.4 % C.I.). When equivocal
samples were considered as positive, positive agreement was 82.5% (75.1 –
88.4 % C.I.) and negative agreement was 95.8% (94.2 – 97.0 % C.I.). Overall
agreement was 94.0% (92.3 – 95.4% C.I.).
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
There were 1011 fresh stool specimens collected from two sites (USA and
Europe) and tested in house by both cellular cytotoxicity assay (CTA) and the
VIDAS CDAB Assay. Results were as follows: Sensitivity 88.3% (81.2-93.5
% C.I.); Specificity 99.8% (99.2 99.9% C.I.); PPV 98.1% (93.5-99.8% C.I.);
NPV 98.4% (97.3 – 99.1% C.I.). An additional clinical study was performed
5

--- Page 6 ---
to compare the VIDAS CDAB assay to CTA testing at an outside reference
lab. The samples were 90 frozen stool specimens and the results were as
follows: Sensitivity 88.0% (68.8 – 97.5% C.I.); Specificity 95.1% (86.3 –
99.0% C.I.
b. Clinical Specificity:
Specificity 99.8% (99.2 99.9% C.I.); PPV 98.1% (93.5-99.8% C.I.); NPV
98.4% (97.3 – 99.1% C.I.). See 3(a)
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Data provided from the literature showed that the frequency of stools with
positive toxins was 9.5% from 136 hospitals in North America and 13.2 – 17.2 %
from 380 hospitals in Canada. The Society for HealthCare Epidemiology of
America (SHEA) reported rates of 17 to 60 cases per 100,000 bed-days.
N. Instrument Name:
The VIDAS PC and the miniVIDAS
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The VIDAS PC instrument cleared in 1989 under K891385 is attached to a
computer and a printer. Each instrument has 5 independent sections allowing 5
different assays to be run simultaneously. Each section can process up to six
samples. When fully loaded it can process 30 samples. The miniVIDAS is a
smaller compact version of the VIDAS PC and was cleared under K923579 in
1993. It has a built in computer, keyboard and printer and is popular in POL’s.
Two independent sections each accept six tests so twelve samples can be
processed simultaneously. The VIDAS assay can be run on either instrument.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
6

--- Page 7 ---
Yes ________ or No X
3. Specimen Identification:
All assay steps are controlled automatically by the instrument. The sample is
transferred into the wells. The CDAB strip consists of ten wells covered with
labeled foil seal. The label comprises a bar code which indicates the assay code,
kit lot number and expiration date.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The solid phase receptor (SPR) serves as both the solid phase and the pipetting
device. The foil of the 1st well is perforated to allow introduction of the sample
into well 1. The last well (well 10) of each strip is a cuvette in which the
fluorometric reading is performed. The center wells of the strip contain the
various reagents required for the assay.
5. Calibration:
The kit contains a standard S1. It is a dilution of recombinant toxin A from C.
difficile in TRIS buffered saline and BSA 5% and preservatives. It also contains
3 controls. C1 is positive control Toxin A, C2 is the negative control and C3 is
positive control Toxin B.
6. Quality Control:
The Master curve is established at time of manufacture for each lot of reagents. It
is provided with each test kit and is entered into the VIDAS instrument using the
Master Lot Entry card (MLE) included in the kit. Data from the MLE card is
entered once for each lot of reagents. Each lab establishes its own calibration
curve (recalibration) based on the mathematical master curve data and the test
results of two calibrators tested in duplicate by the lab. Recalibration serves to
control for minor variations in assay signal from one VIDAS instrument to
another and is therefore specific for each instrument.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
For the VIDAS CDAB assay, validation tests were performed on both the
miniVIDAS and VIDAS PC instruments and no anomalies were detected. Defined
acceptance criteria were met as a result of the validation studies demonstrating
conformance and satisfactory performance with the miniVIDAS instrument.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
7

--- Page 8 ---
R. Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8