
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K080016
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Nucleated Red Blood Cells (n-RBC)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Streck, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
nRBC-Chex for ADVIA®
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GJR
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
nRBC-Chex for ADVIA® is an assayed whole blood control designed to evaluate
the accuracy and precision of the Siemens Healthcare Diagnostic Inc. hematology
analyzers in the measurement of the nucleated red blood cell parameter.
2. Indication(s) for use:
nRBC-Chex for ADVIA® is an assayed whole blood control designed to evaluate
the accuracy and precision of the Siemens Healthcare Diagnostic Inc. hematology
analyzers in the measurement of the nucleated red blood cell parameter.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use on the Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc. hematology analyzers,
ADVIA
I. Device Description:
nRBC-Chex for ADVIA® is a stabilized suspension of human and animal blood,
in a solution containing biological salts and anti-microbial preservatives. The
product is packaged in plastic vials containing 4 ml. The closures are
polypropylene screw caps with polyethylene liners. There are two different levels.
Level 1 has a low count and Level 2 has a higher count. The vials will be
packaged in two (2) or twelve (12) welled vacuum formed “clam-shell”
containers with the package insert/assay sheet. The product must be stored at 2 –
10oC.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
nRBC-Chex for LH
2. Predicate K number(s):
K060083
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item nRBC-Chex for DVIA® nRBC-Chex for LH
Intended use An assayed whole blood An assayed whole blood
control designed to control designed to
evaluate the accuracy and evaluate the accuracy
precision of the Siemens and precision of the
Healthcare Diagnostic Beckman Coulter LH
Inc. hematology 750/LH755 in its
analyzers in the measurement of the
measurement of the nucleated red blood cell
nucleated red blood cell parameter.
parameter.
Parameters RBC, WBC, nRBC Same
Storage temperature 2 – 10o C Same
Differences
Item nRBC-Chex for DVIA® nRBC-Chex for LH
Closed vial stability 45 days 75 days
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
H380-P, Calibration and Quality Control of Automated Hematology Analyzers, April
1999, CLSI
L. Test Principle:
Laboratories require assayed material for quality control of automated, semi-
automated and manual procedures for whole blood parameters. Daily use of these
whole blood controls provides quality control data for confirming the precision and
accuracy of instrument operation. Use of stabilized cell preparations for controlling
laboratory testing protocols is an established procedure. When handled like a patient
sample and assayed on a properly calibrated and functioning instrument, the whole
blood control will provide values within the expected range indicated on the assay
sheet.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item		nRBC-Chex for DVIA®		nRBC-Chex for LH
				
Intended use	An assayed whole blood
control designed to
evaluate the accuracy and
precision of the Siemens
Healthcare Diagnostic
Inc. hematology
analyzers in the
measurement of the
nucleated red blood cell
parameter.			An assayed whole blood
control designed to
evaluate the accuracy
and precision of the
Beckman Coulter LH
750/LH755 in its
measurement of the
nucleated red blood cell
parameter.
Parameters	RBC, WBC, nRBC			Same
Storage temperature	2 – 10o C			Same

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences				
Item		nRBC-Chex for DVIA®		nRBC-Chex for LH
				
Closed vial stability	45 days			75 days

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility studies were performed on three lots of each level (Level 1
and Level 2) of nRBC-Chex control. Each value was calculated from 10
consecutive analyses performed on a single vial of control.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: A minimum of three vials per level are tested on the
analyzer application – Siemens Healthcare Diagnostic, Inc. ADVIA® 2120.
Each vial is tested for a minimum of two test events (in duplicate) are
performed on different dates. The data is entered into the validated QC link
database program which calculates mean, standard deviation, and coefficient
of variation for each parameter. Final assay assignment values are determined
using the data collected parity comparison and established product
performance characteristics.
Open vial stability: Three lots were set up to verify performance throughout
the 14 day open vial dating. Data was collected, at refrigerated temperature (2-
10oC), at least three (3) times during the 14 day study from a single vial per
level. All lots performed as expected, with parameter recovery within the
established assay range.
Closed vial stability: Three lots were set up to verify performance throughout
the 45 day expiration date at refrigerated temperature (2-10oC). No significant
trends occurred and there was consistent recovery of values within the
indicated assay range.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The user is directed to refer to the product assay sheet accompanying the product
insert. The mean assay values provided for each parameter are derived from
replicate analyses on calibrated instruments. It is recommended upon receipt of a
new lot of control the user should establish its own mean and limits. However, the
control means established by the laboratory should fall within the expected range
listed for the control.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6