
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k080436
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Cocaine
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Quantrx Biomedical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RapidSense™ Drugs of Abuse Cocaine (COC) 300 Device
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3250, Cocaine and cocaine metabolite test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
DIO - Cocaine and cocaine metabolite test system
4. Panel:
91 (Toxicology)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The RapidSense™ Drugs of Abuse Cocaine (COC) 300 Device is a lateral flow
competitive immunoassay intended for the qualitative detection of the cocaine
metabolite, benzoylecgonine, in human urine at a cut-off concentration of 300
ng/mL. The assay is intended for use in professional laboratories by healthcare
professionals. For In Vitro Diagnostic Use.
This assay provides only a preliminary result. Clinical consideration and
professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result,
particularly in evaluating a preliminary positive result. To obtain a confirmed
analytical result, a more specific alternate chemical method is needed. Gas
chromatography/mass spectroscopy (GC/MS) is the recommended confirmatory
method.
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
This assay provides only a preliminary result. Clinical consideration and
professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result,
particularly in evaluating a preliminary positive result. To obtain a confirmed
analytical result, a more specific alternative chemical method is needed. Gas
chromatography/Mass spectroscopy (GC/MS) is the recommended confirmatory
method.
For prescription use only.
The assay is not intended for Point of Care use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable. The device is a visually read single-use device.
I. Device Description:
The RapidSense™ Drugs of Abuse Assay is in a plastic cassette approximately 2" x
4" with a disposable pipette inserted. The cassette houses a 5 x 76 mm lateral flow
strip made of nitrocellulose and other cellulose materials.
Each cassette is individually packaged in a moisture barrier foil pouch with desiccant.
Each kit contains 25 individually pouched devices.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ACON COC One Step Test Strip & Test Device
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k010841
3. Comparison with predicate:
The new and predicate devices have the same indications for use and same cut-off
of 300 ng/mL. Both assays are lateral flow competitive immunoassays which
provide a visual qualitative end point. Both assays are intended as a screening
method that provides a preliminary test result.
The devices differ in interpretation of the test line. The presence of the test line
indicates a negative result for the predicate and a positive result for the new device.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CEN 13640, Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
2

--- Page 3 ---
L. Test Principle:
The test employs lateral flow immunochromatographic technology.
The QuantRx assay is a positive line read, competitive immunoassay test with a
differential migration mechanism. The free analyte runs ahead of and continuous
with the blue colored latex labeled antigen conjugates and reacts with the antibody
immobilized in the primary capture zone. The primary capture zone is located under
the top of the cassette, not visible to the user. When analyte is at or above the cutoff
concentration, less antibody in the primary capture zone is available to bind with the
latex-analyte conjugate. Thus more latex-analyte conjugate migrates beyond the
primary capture zone to the secondary capture zone where it forms a test line visible
to the reader. When the drug analyte is absent or below the cut off, the latex-
conjugate binds with the antibody in the primary capture zone and no line forms at
the secondary capture zone (T) resulting in a negative result (no test line).
The internal process control indicates that an adequate volume of sample has been
added and that the immunochromatographic strip is intact.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The sponsor conducted precision studies over ten days using six levels of
commercially available drugs of abuse controls containing benzoylecgonine. The
tests were run in replicates of two and using different lots of product by different
operators at the manufacturer site.
Results of the study are presented below:
COC Precision Study Results:
Sample Percent # Results
Concentration Cut-off Observations # Neg/ #Pos
ng/mL # #
Negative Positives
0 0 20 20 0
150 -50% 20 20 0
225 -25% 20 14 6
300 Cut-off 20 7 13
375 +25% 20 2 18
450 +50% 20 0 20
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable. The assay is intended for qualitative use.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Sample
Concentration
ng/mL	Percent
Cut-off	#
Observations	Results
# Neg/ #Pos	
			#
Negative	#
Positives
0	0	20	20	0
150	-50%	20	20	0
225	-25%	20	14	6
300	Cut-off	20	7	13
375	+25%	20	2	18
450	+50%	20	0	20

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Control materials are required but are not specifically identified in the labeling.
Users are instructed to follow government regulations when determining when to
run external controls.
The device has an internal process control.
d. Detection limit:
Sensitivity of this assay is characterized by validating performance around the
claimed cutoff concentration of the assay, including a determination of the lowest
concentration of drug that is capable of producing a positive result. This
information appears in the precision section 1.a., above.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity was established by spiking various concentrations of similarly
structured drug compounds into drug-free urine. By analyzing various
concentrations of each compound the sponsor determined the concentration of the
drug that produced a response approximately equivalent to the cutoff concentration
of the assay. Results of those studies appear in the table below:
Response equivalent to cutoff
Compound
in ng/mL
Cocaine 5,000
Benzoylecgonine 300
Ecgonine Methyl Ester 100,000
Ecgonine >100,000
The sponsor conducted studies to determine the potential interference of the test
with variety of endogenous and pharmaceutical substances. A positive (450 ng/mL,
+50% of cut-off) and a negative urine pool (150 ng/mL, -50% of cut-off) were used
and the potentially interfering compounds were spiked to a concentration of 100
µg/mL into each urine pool. The following compounds showed no interference
when tested with the RapidSense™ COC Assay at a concentration of 100μg/mL.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Compound	Response equivalent to cutoff
in ng/mL
Cocaine	5,000
Benzoylecgonine	300
Ecgonine Methyl Ester	100,000
Ecgonine	>100,000

--- Page 5 ---
Acetaminophen Chlorpheniramine Hemoglobin
Acetone Creatine Imipramine
Albumin Dextromethorphan Isoproterenol
Amitryptyline 4-dimethylaminoantipyrine Lidocaine
Aspartame Erythromycin Penicillin G
Aspirin Ethanol Pheniramine
Atropine Furosemide Quinidine
Benzocaine Glucose Sulindac
Caffeine Guaiacol Glycerol Ether Vitamin C
There is the possibility that other substances and/or factors not listed above may
interfere with the test and cause false results
To test for possible positive and/or negative interference from specific gravity, the
sponsor prepared two study control samples. The control samples consisted of
drug-free urine spiked with 150 ng/mL and 450 ng/mL of benzoylecgonine.
Aliquots of the control samples were then altered to span the specific gravity
range of 1.007 to 1.031. No positive or negative interference due to specific
gravity was observed.
To test for potential negative interference from pH the sponsor prepared a study
control sample consisting of drug-free urine spiked with 450 ng/mL of
benzoylecgonine. Aliquots of the control samples were then added to urine
samples with a pH range of 4 - 8 and analyzed. No negative interference due to
pH was observed.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable.
Characterization of how the device performs analytically around the claimed cutoff
concentration appears in the precision Section 1.a above.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A total of 87 samples (42 negative and 45 positive) were evaluated by the new
device and by GC/MS.
Sample description: Unaltered clinical urine samples were evaluated.
Sample selection: Samples were selected based on previous GC/MS values.
The study included an adequate number of samples that contained drugs near to the
cutoff concentration of the assay. Approximately 10% of the study samples are
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Acetaminophen
Acetone
Albumin
Amitryptyline
Aspartame
Aspirin
Atropine
Benzocaine
Caffeine	Chlorpheniramine
Creatine
Dextromethorphan
4-dimethylaminoantipyrine
Erythromycin
Ethanol
Furosemide
Glucose
Guaiacol Glycerol Ether	Hemoglobin
Imipramine
Isoproterenol
Lidocaine
Penicillin G
Pheniramine
Quinidine
Sulindac
Vitamin C

--- Page 6 ---
evenly distributed between each plus and minus 50% of the claimed cutoff
concentration.
The study was performed at a single study site by laboratory professionals. The
results are summarized in the table below:
Number of study sites: one
Type of study site: clinical setting
Operator description: clinical site staff
New Device Results vs. stratified GC/MS Values
Near Cutoff Near Cutoff
High Positive
Less than half Negative Positive
New (greater than
the cutoff (Between 50% (Between the
Device 50% above the
concentration by below the cutoff cutoff and 50%
Results cutoff
GC/MS analysis and the cutoff above the cutoff
concentration)
concentration) concentration)
Positive 0 2 15 26
Negative 26 14 4 0
GC/MS values used to categorize samples in this table are based on the
concentration of benzoylecgonine found in the sample.
% Agreement among positives is 91%
% Agreement among negatives is 95%
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
New
Device
Results	Less than half
the cutoff
concentration by
GC/MS analysis	Near Cutoff
Negative
(Between 50%
below the cutoff
and the cutoff
concentration)	Near Cutoff
Positive
(Between the
cutoff and 50%
above the cutoff
concentration)	High Positive
(greater than
50% above the
cutoff
concentration)
Positive	0	2	15	26
Negative	26	14	4	0

--- Page 7 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7