
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k080201
B. Purpose of Submission:
Addition of Inducible Clindamycin Resistance (ICR) test to the VITEK®2 and
VITEK®2 Compact Systems Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) System
C. Measurand
Clindamycin 0.5 μg/mL
Clindamycin/Erythromycin 0.25/0.5 μg/mL
Type of Test:
Quantitative growth based detection algorithm using predetermined growth thresholds
Applicant:
bioMerieux, Inc.
Proprietary and Established Names:
VITEK®2 Gram Positive Inducible Clindamycin Resistance
D. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1645 Short-Term Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test System
2. Classification:
II
3. Product Code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
Intended Use:
5. Intended use(s):
The VITEK®2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test is intended for use with the
VITEK®2 Systems in clinical laboratories as an in vitro test to determine the
susceptibility of Staphylococcus spp., Enterococcus spp., and Streptococcus
agalactiae, to antimicrobial agents when used as instructed in the Online
Product Information.
6. Indication(s) for use:
This application is indicated for the addition of the VITEK® 2 Gram Positive
Inducible Clindamycin Resistance for testing Saphylococcus species at a
clindamycin concentration of 0.5 μg/mL, and clindamycin/erythromycin

--- Page 2 ---
concentration of 0.25/0.5 µg/mL respectively and a calling range of negative
and positive on the VITEK®2 Gram Positive Susceptibility Cards for use with
the VITEK®2 Systems.
7. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
8. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
Device Description:
The VITEK® 2 AST card containing the test is inoculated with a standardized
organism suspension. The card is incubated within the instrument and optically
monitored throughout the incubation cycle. Results are automatically calculated once a
predetermined growth threshold is reached and a report is generated that contains the
final result.
E. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK® 2 Gram Positive Cefoxitin Screen
2. Predicate K number(s):
k053097
3. Comparison with predicate
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Determine antimicrobial Same
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents
Instrument VITEK®2 and VITEK®2 Same
Compact Systems
Test Card VITEK®2 card, including Same
the base broth
Test organism Colonies of Gram-Positive Same
cocci
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Antibiotic Clindamycin and Cefoxitin at specific
erythromycin at specific concentrations
concentrations
Reading algorithm Unique for Inducible Unique for cefoxitin
Clindamycin Resistance
(clindamycin and
erythromycin)
Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Determine antimicrobial
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents			Same		
Instrument			VITEK®2 and VITEK®2
Compact Systems			Same		
Test Card			VITEK®2 card, including
the base broth			Same		
Test organism			Colonies of Gram-Positive
cocci			Same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibiotic			Clindamycin and
erythromycin at specific
concentrations			Cefoxitin at specific
concentrations		
Reading algorithm			Unique for Inducible
Clindamycin Resistance
(clindamycin and
erythromycin)			Unique for cefoxitin		

--- Page 3 ---
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute
(CLSI) M7-M100-S18, “Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for
Bacteria That Grow Aerobically; Approved Standard”.
Test Principle:
Optics systems use visible light to directly measure organism growth. These
transmittance optics are based on an initial light reading of a well before significant
growth has begun. Periodic light transmittance samplings of the same well measure
organism growth by how much light is prevented from going through the well. An
interpretive call is made between 4 and 16 hours for a “rapid” read but may be extended
to 18 hours in some instances. The VITEK®2 Susceptibility Card test is based on the
microdilution minimum inhibitory concentration technique with concentrations
equivalent to standard method concentrations. Several parameters based on the growth
characteristics observed are used to provide appropriate input for the MIC calculations.
Discriminate analysis is used to develop the algorithm that determines the susceptibility
result for all antimicrobials on the VITEK®2 system. The MIC result must be linked to
organism identification in order to determine a category interpretation. A category
interpretation (SIR) will be reported along with a MIC.
F. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Ten S. aureus isolates were tested at three sites using both the
manual dilution and the automatic dilution method. These same
organisms were tested at one site three times to determine within
site reproducibility. Acceptable reproducibility was demonstrated
with only category agreement since that is all that is detected.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
The CLSI recommended QC isolates, S. aureus ATCC BAA-976,
and S. aureus ATCC BAA-977 were tested on every test occasion
with the D-Test disk approximation test reference method and the
VITEK®2. The reference method QC results were in range for
every day tested. The VITEK®2 was tested a sufficient number of
times to demonstrate that the system can produce QC results in the
recommended range.
Quality Control was performed during the studies using both auto-
dilution and the manual dilution method.

--- Page 4 ---
Quality Control Summary
ORGANISM Test VITEK®2 VITEK®2 Reference Reference
AUTO-DIL MAN-DIL AUTO-DIL MAN-DIL
Results
S. aureus Neg 71 70 71 70
ATCC BAA-976 Pos 0 0 0 0
Expected Res: Neg
S. aureus Neg 0 0 0 0
ATCC BAA-977 Pos 70 70 70 70
Expected Res: Pos
Inoculum density control was monitored using the DensiChek
instrument. This was standardized weekly with all results recorded
and in the expected range. Verification was performed during
internal testing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A clinical study was conducted at three external sites using the
VITEK®2 gram positive inducible clindamycin resistance and the inducible
clindamycin resistance test (disk approximation test) as recommended by CLSI.
Inoculum was prepared with direct colony suspension and incubated in ambient
air at 35°C for 16 – 18 hours for Staphylococcus spp. The testing included both
fresh clinical isolates and stock isolates along with a challenge set with known
results. Two methods of inoculation (manual and automated) were evaluated.
Clinical testing was performed using the automated method of inoculation and
the challenge set was tested using both the manual and the automated method.
If the ICR test is positive when testing Staphylococcus species and the
clindamycin result is susceptible or intermediate, then the clindamycin result
will be forced resistant by the ICR test.
The test device had a growth rate of >90%. A comparison was provided
to the reference method with the following agreement.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
ORGANISM	Test
Results	VITEK®2
AUTO-DIL	VITEK®2
MAN-DIL	Reference
AUTO-DIL	Reference
MAN-DIL
					
S. aureus	Neg	71	70	71	70
ATCC BAA-976	Pos	0	0	0	0
Expected Res: Neg					
					
S. aureus	Neg	0	0	0	0
ATCC BAA-977	Pos	70	70	70	70
Expected Res: Pos					
					

--- Page 5 ---
Summary Table
Total CA %CA Neg Pos maj vmj
Clinical 463 459 99.1 400 63 2 2
Challenge 99 99 100 62 37 0 0
Combined 562 558 99.3 462 100 2 2
CA-Category Agreement vmj-very major discrepancies
maj-major discrepancies
CA is when the interpretation of the reference method agrees exactly with the
interpretation of the VITEK®2 results.
Manual Dilution:
The challenge set of organisms was also tested at one site using the manual method of
inoculation with the following performance that demonstrated that there is minimal
difference between the two inoculation methods.
Summary Table
Total CA %CA Neg Pos maj vmj
Challenge 99 100 100 62 37 0 0
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values:
Staphylococcus species: Positive – Detection of inducible resistance to
clindamycin
Negative – No inducible resistance to clindamycin
Labeling
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Total	CA	%CA	Neg	Pos	maj	vmj
Clinical	463	459	99.1	400	63	2	2
Challenge	99	99	100	62	37	0	0
Combined	562	558	99.3	462	100	2	2

[Table 2 on page 5]
	Total	CA	%CA	Neg	Pos	maj	vmj
Challenge	99	100	100	62	37	0	0

--- Page 6 ---
Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6