
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k080455
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Methamphetamine
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative immunoassay
E. Applicant:
QuantRx Biomedical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RapidSense Drugs of Abuse Methamphetamine (MET) 1000 Device
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.3610, Thin Layer Chromatography, Methamphetamine
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
DJC
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 8
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The RapidSense Drugs of Abuse Methamphetamine (MET) 1000 Device is a
lateral flow competitive immunoassay for the qualitative detection of
methamphetamine in human urine at a cutoff concentration of 1000 ng/mL.
The assay is intended for use in professional laboratories by healthcare
professionals. For in vitro diagnostic use.
This assay provides only a preliminary result. Clinical consideration and
professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result,
particularly in evaluating a preliminary positive result. To obtain a confirmed
analytical result, a more specific alternative chemical method is needed. Gas
chromatography/Mass spectroscopy (GC/MS) is the recommended
confirmatory method.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
This assay provides only a preliminary result. Clinical consideration and
professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result,
particularly in evaluating a preliminary positive result. To obtain a confirmed
analytical result, a more specific alternative chemical method is needed. Gas
chromatography/Mass spectroscopy (GC/MS) is the recommended
confirmatory method.
The assay is not designated for use in point-of-care settings.
The assay is for prescription use only.
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable. The device is a visually read single-use device.
I. Device Description:
The product is a single-use device in a cassette format. Operators add several drops
of the sample to the sample well. The test reaction is initiated by movement of the
sample through the test strip.

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 8
Description of the test antibody: monoclonal mouse antibody against
methamphetamine.
Description of the control line antibody: mouse monoclonal antibody against protein
A (Protein A binds with the colloidal gold)
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ACON mAMP One Step Methamphetamine Test Strip and Test Device
2. Predicate K number(s):
k011672
3. Comparison with predicate:
Both devices are for the qualitative determination of the same analyte in the
same matrix, and utilize the same cutoff concentration. Both are visually-read
single use devices.
The devices differ in interpretation of the test line. The presence of the test
line indicates a negative result for the predicate and a positive result for the
new device.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The sponsor referenced the following guidance document(s) in their submission:
CEN 13640, Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
L. Test Principle:
The test employs lateral flow immunochromatographic technology.
The QuantRx assay is a positive read type test with a differential migration
mechanism. The free analyte runs ahead of and continuous with the blue colored
latex labeled antigen conjugates and reacts with the antibody immobilized in the
primary capture zone. The primary capture zone is located under the top of the
cassette, not visible to the user. When analyte is at or above the cutoff concentration,
less antibody in the primary capture zone is available to bind with the latex-analyte
conjugate. Thus more latex-analyte conjugate migrates beyond the primary capture
zone to the secondary capture zone where it forms a test line visible to the reader.
When the drug analyte is absent or below the cut off, the latex-conjugate binds with

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 8
the antibody in the primary capture zone and no line forms at the secondary capture
zone (T) resulting in a negative result (no test line).
The internal process control indicates that an adequate volume of sample has been
added and that the immunochromatographic strip is intact.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Specimen description: commercially available drugs of abuse
controls containing methamphetamine
Number of days: ten
Replicates per day: two
Lots of product used: two
Number of operators: two
Operator: manufacturer staff
Testing Facility: manufacturer
Results of the study are presented below:
Methamphetamine Precision Study Results
Concentration of Number of Results
sample, ng/mL determinations # Neg/ #Pos
0 20 20/0
500 20 20/0
750 20 15/5
1000 20 4/16
1250 20 4/16
1500 20 0/20
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable. The assay is intended for qualitative use.
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Control materials are required but are not specifically identified in
the labeling.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Concentration of
sample, ng/mL	Number of
determinations	Results
# Neg/ #Pos
0	20	20/0
500	20	20/0
750	20	15/5
1000	20	4/16
1250	20	4/16
1500	20	0/20

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 8
The device has an internal process control. Users are instructed to
follow government regulations when determining when to run
external controls.
d. Detection limit:
Sensitivity of this assay is characterized by validating performance
around the claimed cutoff concentration of the assay, including a
determination of the lowest concentration of drug that is capable of
producing a positive result. This information appears in the
precision section, 1.a. above.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity was established by spiking various concentrations of
similarly structured drug compounds into drug-free urine. By
analyzing various concentration of each compound the sponsor
determined the concentration of the drug that produced a response
approximately equivalent to the cutoff concentration of the assay.
Results of those studies appear in the table below:
Methamphetamine
Drug Compound Response equivalent to
cutoff in ng/mL
d-amphetamine >50,000
Chloroquine >100,000
l-methamphetamine 2,500
3,4-Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine 20,000
(MDEA)
D,L 3,4- 500
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
(MDMA)
Procaine >10,000
B-Phenylethylamine >50,000
Ranitidine 50,000
Ephedrine 50,000
The following compounds were evaluated for potential positive
and/or negative interference with the assay. To evaluate for
interference the sponsor prepared two control samples that consisted
of drug-free urine spiked with 500 and 1500 ng/mL of
methamphetamine. 100 µg/mL of potentially interfering
compounds were then added to separate aliquots of the control
samples and analyzed. No positive or negative interference was
observed. The compounds tested were:

[Table 1 on page 5]
Drug Compound	Response equivalent to
cutoff in ng/mL
d-amphetamine	>50,000
Chloroquine	>100,000
l-methamphetamine	2,500
3,4-Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine
(MDEA)	20,000
D,L 3,4-
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
(MDMA)	500
Procaine	>10,000
B-Phenylethylamine	>50,000
Ranitidine	50,000
Ephedrine	50,000

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 8
Acetaminophen Chlorpheniramine Hemoglobin
Acetone Creatine Imipramine
Albumin Dextromethorphan Isoproterenol
Amitryptyline 4-dimethylaminoantipyrine Lidocaine
Aspartame Erythromycin Penicillin G
Aspirin Ethanol Pheniramine
Atropine Furosemide Quinidine
Benzocaine Glucose Sulindac
Caffeine Guaiacol Glycerol Ether Vitamin C
There is the possibility that other substances and/or factors not listed
above may interfere with the test and cause false.
To test for possible positive and/or negative interference from
specific gravity, the sponsor prepared two study control samples.
The control samples consisted of drug-free urine spiked with 500
and 1500 ng/mL of methamphetamine. Aliquots of the control
samples were then altered to span the specific gravity range of 1.007
to 1.031. No positive or negative interference due to specific gravity
was observed.
To test for potential negative interference from pH the sponsor
prepared a study control sample consisting of drug-free urine spiked
with 1500 ng/mL of methamphetamine. Aliquots of the control
samples were then adjusted to a pH range of 3 - 9 and analyzed. No
negative interference due to pH was observed.
f. Assay cut-off:
Characterization of how the device performs analytically around the
claimed cutoff concentration appears in the precision section, 1.a,
above.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A total of 84 samples (40 negative and 44 positive) were evaluated
by the candidate device and by GC/MS.
Sample description: Unaltered clinical urine samples were evaluated.
Sample selection: Samples were selected based on previous GC/MS
values.

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 8
The study included an adequate number of samples that contained
drugs near to the cutoff concentration of the assay. Approximately
10% of the study samples are evenly distributed between plus and
minus 50% of the claimed cutoff concentration.
Number of study sites: one
Type of study site: clinical setting
Operator description: clinical site staff
Candidate Device Results vs. stratified GC/MS Values
Near Cutoff Near Cutoff
Less than half High Positive
Negative Positive
Candidate the cutoff (greater than
(Between 50% (Between the
Device concentration 50% above the
below the cutoff cutoff and 50%
Results by GC/MS cutoff
and the cutoff above the cutoff
analysis concentration)
concentration) concentration)
Positive 0 0 12 21
Negative 32 8 9 2*
GC/MS values used to categorize samples in this table are based on
the concentration of methamphetamine found in the sample.
% Agreement among positives is 75%
% Agreement among negatives is 100%
* The GC-MS concentrations of these samples were 2016 and 1620.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. The assay is intended for only one sample matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable. Clinical studies are not typically submitted for this
device type.
b. Clinical specificity:

[Table 1 on page 7]
Candidate
Device
Results	Less than half
the cutoff
concentration
by GC/MS
analysis	Near Cutoff
Negative
(Between 50%
below the cutoff
and the cutoff
concentration)	Near Cutoff
Positive
(Between the
cutoff and 50%
above the cutoff
concentration)	High Positive
(greater than
50% above the
cutoff
concentration)
Positive	0	0	12	21
Negative	32	8	9	2*

--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 8
Not applicable. Clinical studies are not typically submitted for this
device type.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.