
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number: K080003
B. Purpose for Submission: New submission
C. Measurand: G6PD
D. Type of Test: Qualitative
E. Applicant: Binax, Inc., d/b/a Inverness Medical
F. Proprietary and Established Names: BinaxNOW® G6PD
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 864.7360
2. Classification: II
3. Product code: JBF
4. Panel: Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The BinaxNOW® G6PD (Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase) Test is an in
vitro enzyme chromatographic test for the qualitative detection of G6PD enzyme
activity in human venous whole blood, collected in heparin or
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA). The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test is a
visual screening test used for differentiating normal from deficient G6PD activity
levels in whole blood and is intended to aid in the identification of people with
G6PD deficiency. Samples which generate deficient results should be assayed
using a quantitative G6PD test method to verify the deficiency.
2. Indication(s) for use: Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s): N/A
4. Special instrument requirements: N/A
1

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
The BinaxNOW® G6PD test kit consists of:
• Test devices: a cardboard, book-shaped, hinged test device containing the test
strip
• Reagent A: Tris buffer containing detergent and red dye
• Sample preparation vials: used to mix reagent A with whole blood samples
prior to transfer to the test devices
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s): Trinity Biotech Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase
Deficiency reagent set
2. Predicate K number(s): K933934
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test is an Trinity Biotech G6PD
in vitro enzyme chromatographic reagents are for qualitative,
test for the qualitative detection of visual fluorescence screening
G6PD enzyme activity in human of G-6-PDH in whole blood.
venous whole blood, collected in Samples which have been
heparin or EDTA. The determined deficient or
BinaxNOW® G6PD Test is a visual intermediate should be
screening test used for assayed by a quantitative G-
differentiating normal from 6-DPH method such as
deficient G6PD activity levels in Trinity Biotech Procedure
whole blood and is intended to aid No. 345-UV
in the identification of people with
G6PD deficiency. Samples which
generate deficient results should be
assayed using a quantitative G6PD
test method to verify the deficiency.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample type Heparin or EDTA whole blood Heparin, EDTA, or ACD
whole blood
Quality Control Pool of heparin or EDTA whole Three separate levels of
blood G6PD normal and G6PD commercial control
deficient samples
Technology Lateral flow, enzyme Liquid system, fluorescing
chromatographic assay assay
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test is an
in vitro enzyme chromatographic
test for the qualitative detection of
G6PD enzyme activity in human
venous whole blood, collected in
heparin or EDTA. The
BinaxNOW® G6PD Test is a visual
screening test used for
differentiating normal from
deficient G6PD activity levels in
whole blood and is intended to aid
in the identification of people with
G6PD deficiency. Samples which
generate deficient results should be
assayed using a quantitative G6PD
test method to verify the deficiency.			Trinity Biotech G6PD
reagents are for qualitative,
visual fluorescence screening
of G-6-PDH in whole blood.
Samples which have been
determined deficient or
intermediate should be
assayed by a quantitative G-
6-DPH method such as
Trinity Biotech Procedure
No. 345-UV		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample type			Heparin or EDTA whole blood			Heparin, EDTA, or ACD
whole blood		
Quality Control			Pool of heparin or EDTA whole
blood G6PD normal and G6PD
deficient samples			Three separate levels of
commercial control		
Technology			Lateral flow, enzyme
chromatographic assay			Liquid system, fluorescing
assay		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Interference Not affected by the presence of Leukocytosis,
lactic acid, lactate thrombocytosis, and
dehydrogenase, glucose, reticulocytosis may cause
conjugated and unconjugated some interference.
bilirubin, triglyceride,
cholesterol, and copper sulfate at
concentrations above normal
levels. Abnormally low and
high Hematocrit levels affect the
test performance.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable): N/A
L. Test Principle:
The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test uses lateral flow, enzymatic chromatographic
technology. It is a qualitative test based on for the visual determination of G6PD in
whole blood. The test consists of a test strip comprised of 2 pads: a white sample pad
and a reaction pad. The reaction pad contains reagents necessary for the G6PD
reaction and the subsequent reduction of a nitro blue tetrazolium dye into its
concomitant formazan product. The change of color on the strip indicates the sample
is normal in G6PD enzyme activity. The sample is presumed to be deficient if there
is no change in color.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
• Inter-assay precision study: One lot of reagent was used in the study to
evaluate two different whole blood samples (normal and deficient)
collected in heparin and EDTA tubes. Each sample was run in duplicate
over 10 days by a single operator. Results generated from both heparin
and EDTA samples were correct 100% of the time.
• Reproducibility: The study was conducted at 3 sites, two operators at each
site over 3 days using a different lot of reagent to evaluate blood samples
with varying levels of G6PD activity. 125 test results generated 98.4%
agreement with expected results.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range: N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
N/A
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Interference			Not affected by the presence of
lactic acid, lactate
dehydrogenase, glucose,
conjugated and unconjugated
bilirubin, triglyceride,
cholesterol, and copper sulfate at
concentrations above normal
levels. Abnormally low and
high Hematocrit levels affect the
test performance.			Leukocytosis,
thrombocytosis, and
reticulocytosis may cause
some interference.		

--- Page 4 ---
d. Detection limit: N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
• Interference study was conducted using whole blood samples with varying
levels of G6PD. The effects on the BinaxNOW® G6PD Test on lactic
acid, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose, conjugated and unconjugated
bilirubin, triglyceride, cholesterol, and copper sulfate at concentrations
above normal levels were evaluated. The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test
generated expected results.
• The BinaxNOW® G6PD Test performance was also evaluated on low (17-
18%), normal (35-46%), and high (54-65%) hematocrit blood samples
with deficient and normal G6PD. Test results demonstrate that
abnormally low and high hematocrit levels affect test performance.
f. Assay cut-off: N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
World Health Organization defines severe G6PD deficiency activity is < 10%
of a normal activity level and moderate G6PD deficiency is 10-60% of a
normal enzyme activity of the conventional reference range. Binax developed
its test such that samples with < 2.0 U/gHb enzyme activity will generate
deficient test results, and majority of samples with activity levels between 2
and 4.0 U/gHb will generate deficient test results.
The method comparison study includes 246 subjects. Both heparin and EDTA
whole blood samples were evaluated on the BinaxNOW® test and compared
to a quantitative G6PD test, which spanned the range from 0.0 – 15.1 U/gHb.
All of the samples that generated a result ≤ 2.0 U/gHb on the comparative
method generated deficient results on the BinaxNOW® G6PD test. The
comparative method cutoff value of 4.2 U/gHb was used in the percent
agreement analysis for both heparin and EDTA samples, the results are as
follows:
% Agreement with heparin samples:
Comparative Method →
Deficient Normal
BinaxNOW Deficient 48 4
Test → Normal 1 190
- Deficient result: percent agreement = 48 / 49 = 98.0% (CI = 89.3 – 99.6%)
- Normal result: percent agreement = 190 / 194 = 97.9% (CI = 94.8 – 99.2%)
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
48	4
1	190

--- Page 5 ---
- Overall: percent agreement = 238 / 243* = 97.9% (CI = 95.3 – 99.1%)
(* 3 invalid tests: sample front fails to completely cover the top of the
reaction pad)
% Agreement with EDTA samples:
Comparative Method →
Deficient Normal
BinaxNOW Deficient 49 5
Test → Normal 1 191
- Deficient result: percent agreement = 49 / 50 = 98.0% (CI = 89.5 – 99.6%)
- Normal result: percent agreement = 191 / 196 = 97.4% (CI = 94.2 – 98.9%)
- Overall: percent agreement = 240 / 246 = 97.6% (CI = 94.8 – 98.9%)
b. Matrix comparison: BinaxNOW® G6PD test results on the heparin samples
were compared to the test results on the EDTA samples. The percent
agreement was 99% (240/243).
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity: N/A
b. Clinical specificity: N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable): N/A
4. Clinical cut-off: N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range: The package insert provides color graphics
depicting deficient and normal results.
N. Proposed Labeling: The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21
CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion: The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete
and supports a substantial equivalence decision.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
49	5
1	191

--- Page 6 ---
6