
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k081789
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator material for lactate dehydrogenase
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator material
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ENZ I CAL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150 Calibrator, secondary
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT
4. Panel:
75 Chemistry
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ENZ I CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the LDI
method on the Dimension® clinical chemistry system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension ® clinical chemistry system
I. Device Description:
The ENZ I CAL is a liquid bovine serum albumin based product containing lactate
dehydrogenase (chicken heart). The liquid calibrator is packaged with 4 vials per
carton; 2 vials of Level 2 and 2 vials of Level 3. Purified Water Diluent or reagent
grade water is used as the Level 1 calibrator. The ENZ I CAL is used for the
calibration of the Dimension® clinical chemistry system Lactate Dehydrogenase
Flex® reagent cartridge (LDI).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Roche Calibrator for Automated Systems
2. Predicate K number(s):
k990460
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Traceability IFCC same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Traceability			IFCC			same		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Form Liquid, ready to use lyophilized
Matrix Bovine serum albumin Human based containing
containing lactate lactate dehydrogenase
dehydrogenase (chicken (porcine heart)
heart)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and value assignment involves preparation of anchor pools and
master pools. The anchor pool is prepared from pooled normal and high
human serum and is assigned by the IFCC Reference Method. LD enzyme is
weighed into BSA based matrix to make (LDI )stock solution. Three levels of
LDI master pools are manufactured by adding the appropriate volume of LDI
stock, with a known concentration into an aqueous BSA base material. Level
1 of the LDI master pool, containing no analyte is assigned zero U/L. Levels 2
and 3 of the LDI master pool are assigned by the IFCC reference method and
verified against the anchor pools using multiple Dimension instruments
Stability: ENZ I CAL is supplied as a ready to use liquid. Target shelf life for
the ENZ I CAL is 12 months when stored at 2-8º C. The shelf life and open
stability of the calibrator have been demonstrated using real time data. Shelf
life is determined by comparing results of the product stored at 2-8º C with the
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Form			Liquid, ready to use			lyophilized		
Matrix			Bovine serum albumin
containing lactate
dehydrogenase (chicken
heart)			Human based containing
lactate dehydrogenase
(porcine heart)		

--- Page 4 ---
control material stored at -20 º C and -70 º C. Recovery vs. time is monitored
and percent change over time is determined with allowable drift (control vs.
test): Level 2 and 3: ≤ 5%. Once the cap is removed, the assigned values are
stable for 30 days when recapped immediately and stored at 2-8 ºC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5