
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K081520___
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
Sensitouch Plate Viewer, N50531
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
No changes were made to the Indication/Intended Use.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for the addition of the Vizion plate viewer to the Sensititre MIC and Breakpoint
Susceptibility system. The fundamental Scientific Technology of the device did not change.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and

--- Page 2 ---
2

--- Page 3 ---
3
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis;
The manufacturer submitted a Risk Analysis method based on potential hazards that could occur
with use of the device. Recommended mitigations were identified for each hazard followed by
statements of residual risk after implementation of mitigations.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The verification and validation activities were submitted and, in general, are satisfactory.
The sponsor submitted MIC results comparing the performance of the Vizion to the Sensitouch
plate viewer from in-house testing as well as three external sites to demonstrate that the
modification did not impact the performance of the device. The sponsor stated that Risk # 19
(Endpoint Read Differences) studies were not completed for the verification and validation
activities of the Vizion reader. Because this information is critical to determine if there is a
significant risk associated with adding a new reader, the sponsor was asked to perform a study
with 3 individuals reading the same plates but blinded to the light settings used by the other
individuals. The sponsor performed the study in-house and the results were satisfactory. We
performed an interactive exchange to agree upon the content of the Vizion User Manual. In
addition the SWIN software used by the reader was reviewed.
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
The declaration of conformity with design controls was submitted and is satisfactory.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for

--- Page 4 ---
4
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.