
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k081683
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator materials for Cardiac Troponin I
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LOCI® Cardiac Troponin I Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR 862.1150
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT
4. Panel:
75 (Chemistry)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The LOCI® TNI Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
Cardiac Troponin I (TNI) method on the Dimension® EXL™ integrated chemistry
system with LOCI® module.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with Dimension® EXL™ integrated chemistry system with LOCI® module.
I. Device Description:
The LOCI® Cardiac Troponin I Calibrator is a liquid, frozen, human serum based product
containing native human troponin complex with other components designed to stabilize the
product. The calibrator levels and their assigned values are:
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
TNI 0 ng/mL 0.60 ng/mL 6 ng/mL 20 ng/mL 43 ng/mL
The human blood used in the manufacture of these calibrators has been tested using FDA
approved methods and found to be non-reactive for HBsAg and antibodies to HCV and HIV-
1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device names(s):
Dimension Vista Cardiac Troponin I Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k053577
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Level 1	Level 2	Level 3	Level 4	Level 5
TNI	0 ng/mL	0.60 ng/mL	6 ng/mL	20 ng/mL	43 ng/mL

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities and Differences
Item Dimension Vista Cardiac LOCI Cardiac Troponin I
Troponin I Calibrator Calibrator
(predicate device) (candidate device)
Intended Use The CTNI CAL is an in vitro The LOCI TNI CAL is an in
diagnostic product for the vitro diagnostic product for
calibration of Cardiac the calibration of the Cardiac
Troponin I (CTNI) on the Troponin I (TNI) method on
Dimension Vista system the Dimension® EXL™
integrated chemistry system
with LOCI module
Analyte and Human troponin complex in Same
Matrix human serum matrix
Forms Liquid, frozen form Same
Calibrator 6 levels 5 levels
levels
Traceability The calibrator is traceable to an Same
internal master pool containing
human cardiac troponin
complex
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences						
Item		Dimension Vista Cardiac			LOCI Cardiac Troponin I	
		Troponin I Calibrator			Calibrator	
		(predicate device)			(candidate device)	
Intended Use	The CTNI CAL is an in vitro
diagnostic product for the
calibration of Cardiac
Troponin I (CTNI) on the
Dimension Vista system			The LOCI TNI CAL is an in
vitro diagnostic product for
the calibration of the Cardiac
Troponin I (TNI) method on
the Dimension® EXL™
integrated chemistry system
with LOCI module		
Analyte and
Matrix	Human troponin complex in
human serum matrix			Same		
Forms	Liquid, frozen form			Same		
Calibrator
levels	6 levels			5 levels		
Traceability	The calibrator is traceable to an
internal master pool containing
human cardiac troponin
complex			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment:
Traceability and value assignment for LOCI Troponin I calibrators involves
preparation of anchor pools and master pools. The master pools are used to assign
individual calibrator lots.
The anchor pools are a 6-level set of primary reference calibrators. They are prepared
from native human sera and are assigned values using the Siemens Stratus CS
analyzer. The master pools are prepared from a normal human serum pool spiked
with human troponin complex to the appropriate concentrations. Values for the
Master Pool are derived by multiple analyses against the Anchor Pool calibration
curve. Each lot of the LOCI® Cardiac Troponin I Calibrator is prepared the same
manner as the master pool and the value assignment is established by measurement
against the Master Pool calibration.
Stability: The shelf-life and open-vial stability of the LOCI Cardiac Troponin I
Calibrator have been demonstrated using real time data collected from 3 lots of
calibrators. The predetermined acceptance criteria and protocols were reviewed and
found to be acceptable.
For the LOCI Cardiac Troponin I Calibrator, the sponsor claims a shelf life of 12
months when unopened and stored at -20°C. Once thawed and opened, the calibrator
is stable for 24 hours when stored at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The assigned values are printed in the labeling of the calibrator materials.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5