
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k081478
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for blood glucose monitoring systems - glucose and β-ketone
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bionostics Quality Solutions
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
RNA Medical Glucose and ß-Ketone Calibration Verification Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I (Reserved)
3. Product code:
JJX, single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
RNA Medical Glucose and β-Ketone Calibration Verification Controls are assayed controls
intended for use to confirm the calibration and linearity of glucose and β-ketone at the upper and
lower limits of the reportable range and at three (3) points within the range. This product is for
use with the Precision Xceed Pro™ Blood Glucose and β-Ketone Monitoring System, which uses
Precision Xceed Pro™ Blood Glucose Test Strips and Precision Xceed Pro™ β-Ketone Test
Strips. It is not for use with the Precision PCx System or the i-STAT 1 Analyzer, which use
Precision PCx Test Strips, Precision PCx Plus Test Strips, or i-STAT 1 glucose cartridges.
The RNA Medical Glucose and β-Ketone Calibration Verification Controls is intended for use by
healthcare professionals.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See intended use section above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
For prescription use only

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
Abbott Diabetes Care Precision Xceed Pro™ Blood Glucose and β-Ketone Monitoring System
I. Device Description:
The RNA Medical Glucose and β-Ketone Calibration Verification Control is a five-level, viscosity-
adjusted, aqueous liquid glucose and β-ketone control linearity set optimized for use with the Abbott
Diabetes Care Precision Xceed Pro™ Blood Glucose and β-Ketone Monitoring System using
Precision Xceed Pro Blood Glucose Test Strips and Precision Xceed Pro Blood β-Ketone Test Strips.
The product is packaged in plastic bottles with dropper tips for application of the solution to test
strips. The control has a green color to help users see the solution while dispensing onto a test strip.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
RNA GL4 Glucose Calibration Verification Control
Precision Control Solutions
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k021624; k983504
3. Comparison with predicate:
Characteristic Predicate Devices Modified Device
Name: RNA GL4 Glucose Precision Control RNA Medical Glucose and β-
Calibration Solutions Ketone Calibration
Verification Control Verification Controls
Number of 5 3 5
levels: 7 vials per kit, only 5
levels for use on
specific devices
Analytes: Glucose Glucose, Ketone Glucose, Ketone
Container: plastic bottle plastic bottle plastic bottle
Fill volume: 4 mL 3 mL 4 mL
Color: Red Clear Green
Buffered aqueous Buffered aqueous Buffered aqueous solution of
Matrix: solution of D-Glucose, solution of D- D-Glucose, β-
viscosity modifier, Glucose, hydroxybutyrate, viscosity
dye, preservative and Beta- modifier, dye, preservative
other non-reactive hydroxybutyrate and and other non-reactive
ingredients. other non-reactive ingredients.
ingredients.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 15197 In-vitro diagnostic test systems – requirements for self-testing in managing diabetes
ISO 14971 Medical Devices, Application of risk management to medical devices
ISO 13485 Medical Devices-Quality Management Systems – Requirements for regulatory purposes
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable

[Table 1 on page 2]
Characteristic	Predicate Devices		Modified Device
Name:
Number of
levels:
Analytes:
Container:
Fill volume:
Color:
Matrix:	RNA GL4 Glucose
Calibration
Verification Control
5
7 vials per kit, only 5
levels for use on
specific devices
Glucose
plastic bottle
4 mL
Red
Buffered aqueous
solution of D-Glucose,
viscosity modifier,
dye, preservative and
other non-reactive
ingredients.	Precision Control
Solutions
3
Glucose, Ketone
plastic bottle
3 mL
Clear
Buffered aqueous
solution of D-
Glucose,
Beta-
hydroxybutyrate and
other non-reactive
ingredients.	RNA Medical Glucose and β-
Ketone Calibration
Verification Controls
5
Glucose, Ketone
plastic bottle
4 mL
Green
Buffered aqueous solution of
D-Glucose, β-
hydroxybutyrate, viscosity
modifier, dye, preservative
and other non-reactive
ingredients.

--- Page 3 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
No traceability was provided.
Product stability has been established based on real time studies on RNA Medical Glucose
and β-Ketone Calibration Verification Controls. Samples are analyzed at predetermined
intervals. The protocols for establishing shelf-life and open-vial stability were reviewed and
are adequate. The real-time studies support the claimed shelf life, 24 months at room
temperature (2°- 30°C) for unopened bottles. The open bottle testing demonstrated a less than
10% change in glucose (all levels) over the 90 day evaluation period. The open bottle testing
demonstrated the change in ketone values over the 90 day evaluation met the stability
specifications.
The expected values in the labeling are based on multiple determinations performed on
randomly selected samples from each lot using several test strip lot numbers and monitors.
The assigned values for the reference lots are determined by measurement of all levels of
control on each blood glucose meter/strip configuration by Abbott Diabetes Care. Value
assignment for each lot of control solution will be provided in the package insert delivered
with the control.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.