
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k081103
B. Purpose for Submission:
Add TSH to the existing FT4 calibrator materials
C. Measurand:
Calibrator materials for FT4 and TSH
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR 862.1150
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX, Calibrator, Multi-analyte mixture
4. Panel:
75 (Chemistry)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
FT4L and TSHL methods on the Dimension® EXL™ with LM system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with Dimension® EXL™ with LM system
I. Device Description:
The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator is a liquid, bovine serum albumin based product containing
human thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and free thyroxine (FT4). The calibrator levels
and their assigned values are:
Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Level 6
FT4L ---- 0.8 ng/dL 2.0 ng/dL 4.0 ng/dL 8.4 ng/dL
TSHL 0.00 µIU/mL 4.00 µIU/mL 20.00 µIU/mL 50.00 µIU/mL 105.00 µIU/mL
The human blood used in the manufacture of these calibrators has been tested using FDA
approved methods and found to be non-reactive for HBsAg and antibodies to HCV and HIV-
1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device names(s):
Siemens LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k073604
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Level 2	Level 3	Level 4	Level 5	Level 6
FT4L	----	0.8 ng/dL	2.0 ng/dL	4.0 ng/dL	8.4 ng/dL
TSHL	0.00 µIU/mL	4.00 µIU/mL	20.00 µIU/mL	50.00 µIU/mL	105.00 µIU/mL

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities and Differences
Item LOCI Thyroid Calibrator LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
(predicate device) (candidate device)
Intended Use The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
is used to calibrate the is used to calibrate the
Dimension® FT4L method on Dimension® FT4L and TSHL
the Dimension® EXL™ with methods on the Dimension®
LM system EXL™ with LM system
Analytes and The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
Matrix contains free thyroxine in a contains human thyroid
bovine serum albumin matrix stimulating hormone and free
thyroxine in a bovine serum
albumin matrix
Forms Liquid Same
Calibrator 4 levels (Levels 3 through 6) 5 levels (Level 2 through 6).
levels Levels 3 through 6 are used to
calibrate the FT4L method.
Levels 2 through 6 are used to
calibrate the TSHL method.
Stability Unopened calibrators are stable Same
until expiration date when
stored at 2-8oC. Once opened,
stable for 3 months at 2-8oC.
Traceability The calibrator is traceable to an The calibrator is traceable to
internal master pool for FT4 an internal master pool for
FT4 and to the WHO standard
for TSH.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA/CDRH Guidance for Industry: Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators, Final- February 22, 1999.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences						
Item		LOCI Thyroid Calibrator			LOCI Thyroid Calibrator	
		(predicate device)			(candidate device)	
Intended Use	The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
is used to calibrate the
Dimension® FT4L method on
the Dimension® EXL™ with
LM system			The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
is used to calibrate the
Dimension® FT4L and TSHL
methods on the Dimension®
EXL™ with LM system		
Analytes and
Matrix	The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
contains free thyroxine in a
bovine serum albumin matrix			The LOCI Thyroid Calibrator
contains human thyroid
stimulating hormone and free
thyroxine in a bovine serum
albumin matrix		
Forms	Liquid			Same		
Calibrator
levels	4 levels (Levels 3 through 6)			5 levels (Level 2 through 6).
Levels 3 through 6 are used to
calibrate the FT4L method.
Levels 2 through 6 are used to
calibrate the TSHL method.		
Stability	Unopened calibrators are stable
until expiration date when
stored at 2-8oC. Once opened,
stable for 3 months at 2-8oC.			Same		
Traceability	The calibrator is traceable to an
internal master pool for FT4			The calibrator is traceable to
an internal master pool for
FT4 and to the WHO standard
for TSH.		

--- Page 4 ---
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
Traceability and value assignment for free thyroxine (fT4) in the calibrator was
previously described in k073604 and has not been modified.
Traceability and value assignment for thyroid stimulating hormone involves
preparation of anchor pools and master pools. The anchor pool is prepared from
WHO TSH 2nd IRP 80/558 reference material spiked into TSH-free serum. Three
levels of anchor pool are prepared. A Master Pool is prepared gravimetrically from a
commercially available TSH. Values for the Master Pool are derived by multiple
analyses against the Anchor Pool calibration curve. LOCI® Thyroid Calibrator value
assignment is established by measurement against the Master Pool calibration.
Stability: The shelf-life and open-vial stability of the LOCI Thyroid Calibrator when
stored at 2-8°C have been demonstrated using real time data collected from 3 lots of
calibrators. The predetermined acceptance criteria and protocols were reviewed and
found to be acceptable.
For the LOCI Thyroid Calibrator, the sponsor claims a shelf life of 12 months when
unopened and stored at 2-8°C. Once opened, the LOCI Thyroid Calibrator is stable
for 3 months when stored at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
4

--- Page 5 ---
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The assigned values are printed in the labeling of the calibrators.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5