
--- Page 1 ---
Special 510(k): Device Modification OIVD Review Memorandum
To: The File Re: k081251
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the
SUBMITTER’S own Class II device requiring 510(k). The submission was
reviewed by a Third Party Review entity. The following items are present and
acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared
device:
AESKU.DIAGNOSTICS AESKULISA dsDNA G, K041628
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along
with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use, package
labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended
use):
There are no changes in Intended Use or Indications for Use. (Section 4,
page 2 of 6 and Section 8, page 4-18)
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled
diagrams, engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service
manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL
SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
a. Removal of mercury containing stabilizers (thimerosal) from reagents
b. Change in incubation times from 30-15-15 minutes to 30-30-30
minutes
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s
legally marketed predicate device including, labeling, intended use,
physical characteristics, and
Similarities:
Feature Modified device
Indicated use No Change
Fundamental Scientific No Change
Technology
Coated antigen No Change
Shelf life No Change

[Table 1 on page 1]
Feature	Modified device
Indicated use	No Change
Fundamental Scientific
Technology	No Change
Coated antigen	No Change
Shelf life	No Change

--- Page 2 ---
Feature Modified device
Production Process No Change
Standardization No Change
Quality Control Criteria No Change
Cut-off Range No Change
Differences:
• The preservative thimerosal which was a non-reactive compound of
very low concentration in some components of the product (Sample
buffer 5x, Wash buffer 50x, Controls and Conjugate) was removed
for environmental issues (Thimerosal contains 50% mercury). The
other preservative content (e.g. NaN3) in the respective
components still ensures the stability of the product. Thimerosal
does not play any role in the reactivity, sensitivity and specificity of
the test. The role as a preservative is to keep the test stable for the
claimed shelf life (18 Months) and it is per definition and
requirement a non-reactive compound.
• The different incubation steps of the device, which were initially
performed in 30 minutes, 15 minutes and 15 minutes, were
changed. The modification is a prolongation of the 2nd and 3rd step
from 15 minutes to 30 minutes to improve assay performance.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of
the modification on the device and its components, and the results of
the analysis:
The risk analysis method used to assess the impact of the modification
was a Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) – (Section 8, page 4-
19)
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or
validation activities required, including methods or tests used and
acceptance criteria to be applied:
As a result of the risk analysis, real time stability testing for low,
medium and high levels of dsDNA autoantibodies, over the 18 month
shelf life were tested. The test methods used are the same as those
used in the original submission.

[Table 1 on page 2]
Feature	Modified device
Production Process	No Change
Standardization	No Change
Quality Control Criteria	No Change
Cut-off Range	No Change

--- Page 3 ---
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of
conformity included:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as
required by the risk analysis, all verification and validation
activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and
the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance
criteria were met (Section 8, page 4-20), and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the
manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control
procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the
records are available for review (Section 8, page 4-20).
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement (Section 7, page 4-22), a 510(k)
Statement (cover letter and Section 8, page 4-21) and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (cover letter and Section 8, page 6-50)
The labeling for this modified subject device was reviewed to verify that the
intended use for the device was unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative
information between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the
fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and, on this
basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the
previously cleared device.
This submission was reviewed by Intertek Testing Services NA, Inc. a certified
Third Party Review entity. They submitted a signed Authorization to Submit letter
from AESKU.DIAGNOSTICS and signed Third Party Certification statements.