
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k081769
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for a new device.
C. Measurand:
Antithrombin
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, Chromogenic
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7060; Antithrombin III assay
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JBQ; Antithrombin III quantitation
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin is a chromogenic assay for the automated
quantification of functionally active antithrombin in human citrated plasma and
can be used as an aid in the diagnosis of antithrombin deficiency.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
BCS®/BCS® XP System
I. Device Description:
INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin is a chromogenic assay kit containing three reagents
used for the determination of antithrombin activity. The reagents are in liquid form
and are composed of human Factor Xa, bovine serum albumin, heparin, hirudin,
aprotinin and preservatives, chromogenic substrate and buffer.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring Berichrom™ Antithrombin III (A)
2. Predicate K number(s):
k933125
3. Comparison with predicate:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Automatic quantification Same
of functionally active
antithrombin in citrated
plasma.
Sample type Human citrated plasma Same
Platform Automated coagulation Same
analyzers with reading
capability at a
wavelength of 405 nm
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use INNOVANCE™ For the quantitative
Antithrombin is a determination of the
chromogenic assay for the functional activity of
automatic quantification of antithrombin III (ATIII)
functionally active in plasma using
antithrombin in human automated analyzers for
citrated plasma and can be
increased consumption
used as an aid in the
and for monitoring
diagnosis of antithrombin
substitution therapy.
deficiency.
Test Methodology Chromogenic substrate, Kinetic test, thrombin-
human Factor Xa specific substrate
Reagents Liquid Lyophilized
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
The INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin assay utilizes a chromogenic measuring
principle. An excess of factor Xa is added to citrated plasma. In the presence of
heparin, a portion of the enzyme is complexed and inactivated by the antithrombin
present in the sample. Excess, uninhibited factor Xa then cleaves a specific
chromogenic substrate, causing the release of a dye. The rate of the substrate cleavage
is determined by the increase in the absorbance value at 405 nm.
antithrombin + heparin ————————> [antithrombin • heparin]
[antithrombin • heparin] + FXa (excess) —> [antithrombin • heparin • FXa] + FXa
(residual)
FXa (residual)
chromogenic FXa substrate ———————> tripeptide + dye
The release of dye is inversely proportional to the inhibiting activity of the
antithrombin in the plasma sample, i.e. the smaller the concentration of functionally
active antithrombin, the higher the absorbance signal per time unit.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Automatic quantification
of functionally active
antithrombin in citrated
plasma.			Same		
Sample type			Human citrated plasma			Same		
Platform			Automated coagulation
analyzers with reading
capability at a
wavelength of 405 nm			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			INNOVANCE™
Antithrombin is a
chromogenic assay for the
automatic quantification of
functionally active
antithrombin in human
citrated plasma and can be
used as an aid in the
diagnosis of antithrombin
deficiency.			For the quantitative
determination of the
functional activity of
antithrombin III (ATIII)
in plasma using
automated analyzers for
increased consumption
and for monitoring
substitution therapy.		
Test Methodology			Chromogenic substrate,
human Factor Xa			Kinetic test, thrombin-
specific substrate		
Reagents			Liquid			Lyophilized		

--- Page 3 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision studies were conducted with the BCS® System, as described in the
CLSI Guideline EP5-A2, using Control Plasma N (control plasma in the
normal range) and Control Plasma P (control plasma in the pathological
range) as well as a pathological plasma pool (human plasma pool in the
decision range and prepared from a minimum of 20 different individuals).
Plasmas were tested in duplicate for 20 days, two runs per day (with at least a
2 hour time interval between the two runs). Analysis of variance was
performed on the results.
Acceptance criteria: Within device/within laboratory CV ≤10%; Repeatability
CV for controls within normal range and controls in low pathological range
were ≤5% and ≤7%, respectively. Between-run CV for controls within
normal range and controls in the low pathological range were ≤5% and ≤10%,
respectively.
Acceptance criteria were met for all three levels tested.
Precision (N = 80)
Sample
Mean Repeatability CV Within-device/lab CV
[% of the Norm] [%] [%]
Control Plasma N 95.8 2.8 3.7
Control Plasma P 31.4 2.6 4.5
Pathological 61.7 1.9 3.5
Plasma Pool
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity for INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin on the BCS® System was found
to be from 6.0% to 127.9% within 2.9% measured maximum deviation in this
interval. Verification of dilution linearity on the BCS® System was performed
according to CLSI guideline EP6-A. A high pool (Control Plasma N
reconstituted with 700 μL of purified water) and a low pool (INNOVANCE™
Antithrombin Buffer) were mixed according to a dilution scheme with equally
spaced concentrations to establish a linear range of 9 concentration levels
across the anticipated measuring range of 0 % to 150 % Antithrombin. Four
replicates were used at each concentration level. The mean result of each level
was compared to expected result for the same concentration level.
Statistical calculation of the relative difference between predicted values from
the linear regression analysis versus those from the best fitting polynomial in
the diagnostically relevant range vary from 0.48 to 2.86%, which was within
the pre-defined criterion for nonlinear error of ≤8%.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Real Time Stability and Open Vial Stability - Three lots of INNOVANCE™
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Sample	Precision (N = 80)		
	Mean
[% of the Norm]	Repeatability CV
[%]	Within-device/lab CV
[%]
Control Plasma N	95.8	2.8	3.7
Control Plasma P	31.4	2.6	4.5
Pathological
Plasma Pool	61.7	1.9	3.5

--- Page 4 ---
Antithrombin Reagent, INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin Substrate and
INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin Buffer were tested (vials with the respective
volumes of the large vial size kit OPFH 055 and of the small vial size kit
OPFH 035) using Control Plasma N (CPN), Control Plasma P (CPP) and a
sample in the decision range of 75% antithrombin activity of the norm.
Testing of the three lots was performed over a period of 12 months and at
least one month after the end of expected shelf life (day 0; 6 months, 12
months and 13 months). Vials of reagent, substrate and buffer of each of the
three lots were opened and stored as claimed in the package insert. All
measurements were performed in triplicate.
Acceptance criteria: All test results (mean of triplicates) must fall within the
assigned ranges of the controls and of the sample with an antithrombin
activity of 75% of the norm. Stability data support a shelf life of 12 months
and Open Vial stability of 8 hours at +15º to +25ºC and 4 weeks at +2º to
+8ºC.
d. Detection limit:
The determination of LoB for the BCS® System was performed using one
blank and four low-level samples. Studies were conducted by two operators
over four different days, using three different INNOVAVCE Antithrombin
reagent lots and one analyzer consistent with the CLSI guideline EP17-A.
Limit of blank (LoB) was derived from measuring INNOVANCE™
Antithrombin Buffer in 60 replications. Non-parametric analysis methods
were used for all reagent lots. LoB was defined as 5.1%, the maximum value
obtained in the three individual runs.
Limit of detection (LoD) for INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin assay on the
BCS® coagulation system was determined with four low-level samples, three
reagent lots and one analyzer. For the evaluation of LoD the four low level
samples were measured in 15 replications each. The limit of detection (LoD)
was defined as 6.0 %, the maximum value obtained in the three individual
runs. The acceptance criterion LoD < 7% was met.
e. Analytical specificity:
All interference studies were conducted using a normal plasma pool and a
pathological plasma pool spiked with increasing concentrations of the
potential interfering substance. Nine concentrations ranging from 0% to
100% of the potential interferent were measured on the BCS® / BCS® XP
System for each pool. Four replicates were measured for each concentration.
Successive concentrations were tested until the maximum acceptable
deviation from the reference samples was observed in two consecutive
concentrations. The acceptance criterion was 10% deviation from the original
value obtained with a neat sample for each pool. Results obtained with
interferent levels that exceeded the acceptance criterion were considered
unacceptable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Interference studies were performed for hemoglobin, bilirubin and
triglycerides using the INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin reagent on the BCS®
System. Acceptable results were obtained for interferent levels up to 60
mg/dL for bilirubin, 100 mg/dL for hemoglobin, and 211 mg/dL for
triglycerides. Interference studies were performed for direct Factor Xa
inhibitors, e.g., Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor (TFPI) and Fondaparinux
Sodium. In addition, studies to evaluate the potential interference caused by
direct thrombin inhibitors, general serine protease inhibitor and indirect Factor
Xa inhibitor were conducted.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable. Discrimination point between normal and deficient subjects
in around the lower limit of the reference range (~80% of the norm).
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The method comparison studies were conducted at three different sites, one
internal and one external evaluation using the BCS® System. The studies
were conducted using different populations obtained from patients at risk for
thrombotic events with suspected or known thrombophilia. Fresh and frozen,
male and female patient samples were analyzed by both the proposed and
predicate devices in single determination. The study also included samples
from normal patients and diluted samples to ensure samples were tested over
the entire measuring range. A total of 284 specimens with antithrombin
activity ranging from 4.8 to 131.3% of the norm were tested during different
days with two lots of INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin reagent on the BCS®
System and compared to the Dade Behring Berichrom™ Antithrombin III (A)
reagent on the BCS® System. Results were analyzed using Passing-Bablock
regression. Acceptance criteria: Coefficient of regression r > 0.9; Slope > 0.9
and <1.1.
INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin vs. Berichrom Antithrombin AT III (A)
Study Site N Slope Intercept (%) r
Munich 109 1.000 0.800 0.982
Internal 175 1.051 1.443 0.934
Pooled MC 284 1.040 0.340 0.944
(Munich & Internal)
Giessen 147 1.054 0.469 0.987
b. Matrix comparison:
Comparability Study between Fresh and Frozen Samples:
Comparison between fresh and frozen specimens was done externally in
Munich. The following samples were measured fresh and after storage at <-
60°C for at least 7 days:
- 26 samples from patients with acquired AT deficiency
- 42 samples with normal AT deficiency
- 39 diluted samples
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Study Site	N	Slope	Intercept (%)	r
Munich	109	1.000	0.800	0.982
Internal	175	1.051	1.443	0.934
Pooled MC
(Munich & Internal)	284	1.040	0.340	0.944
Giessen	147	1.054	0.469	0.987

--- Page 6 ---
- 33 samples from patients under Heparin therapy
The results of the comparison are depicted in the table and graph below.
Results of the regression analysis demonstrated excellent concordance
between fresh and frozen samples.
Methods n r r2 slope Intercept
[% of normal]
fresh vs.
140 0.994 0.989 1.007 - 0.480
frozen
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Fresh samples from 150 apparently healthy blood donors were measured on the
BCS® System with two lots of INNOVANCE™ Antithrombin reagent. The
donors ranged in age from 18 to 61 years and were comprised of 43 females and
107 males. The time between collection of blood samples and measurement did
not exceed 4 hours. The mean of the reference range was 99.4 and the central
95% range (2.5th percentile and 97.5th percentile) was 82.9 – 118.2.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Methods	n	r	r2	slope	Intercept
[% of normal]
fresh vs.
frozen	140	0.994	0.989	1.007	- 0.480