
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k082717
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Control Materials for Alpha fetoprotein (AFP), Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA-
125, CA 15-3, Free Prostate specific antigen (free PSA), and total prostate specific
antigen (total PSA) test systems.
D. Type of Test:
Quality control material – linearity verifiers for 6 serum tumor markers
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific, Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Audit™ MicroCV™ Tumor Markers Linearity Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR§ 862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY, Multi-analyte controls, all kinds (assayed)
4. Panel:
Immunology (82)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Tumor Markers Linearity Set consists of five levels in
Human based serum. Each level contains the following analytes: Alpha fetoprotein
(AFP), Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA-125, CA 15-3, Prostate specific
antigen-free (free PSA), total PSA. The five levels demonstrate a linear relationship
to each other for their respective analytes, reagents, and instruments. This product
may be used for proficiency testing in interlaboratory surveys.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Quality control material for the analyzer systems specified in the package insert.
I. Device Description:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Tumor Markers Linearity Set is a human serum based,
lyophilized, five level set of QC material, with each level containing 6 analytes. It is used
to confirm the linear operating range of Tumor Marker methods for the analytes listed.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Level A is near the lower limit level and Level E has concentrations near the upper limit
of instruments. Levels B – D are related by linear dilution of Level A and Level E.
Each serum, plasma or whole blood donor unit used in the preparation of this material
was tested by United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved methods and
found to be negative for antibodies to HIV and HCV and nonreactive for HBSAg.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Audit MicroCV General Chemistry Linearity Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042318
3. Comparison with predicate:
Audit™ MicroCV™ Tumor Markers Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Characteristics
Linearity Set (New Device) Linearity Set (K042318)
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Tumor Markers Linearity Set Linearity Set is assayed quality control
consists of five levels in material consisting of human based
serum. It is intended to simulate human
Human based serum. Each
patient serum samples for the purpose of
level contains the following
monitoring the precision and to detect
analytes: Alpha fetoprotein
systematic analytical deviations of
(AFP), Carcinoembryonic
laboratory testing procedures. This
antigen (CEA), CA-125, CA
product may also be used as unassayed
15-3, Prostate specific
quality control material for these same
Intended Use
antigen-free (free PSA), total analytes and may be used for proficiency
PSA. The five levels testing in interlaboratory surveys. In
demonstrate a linear addition, this product may also be used to
relationship to each other for perform CLIA directed calibration
their respective analytes, verification for these same analytes with
similar reagents on similar
reagents, and instruments.
instrumentation in accordance with
This product may be used for
current CLIA-88 guidelines and
proficiency testing in
regulations.
interlaboratory surveys.
Number of
6 30
Analytes per vial
Number of levels
5 5
per set
Contents 5 x 1 mL 5 x 5 mL
Matrix Human based serum Human Based Serum
Type of Analytes Cancer Markers General Chemistry
Form Lyophilized Lyophilized
Stabilizers None None
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Characteristics	Audit™ MicroCV™ Tumor Markers
Linearity Set (New Device)	Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Linearity Set (K042318)
Intended Use	The Audit™ MicroCV™
Tumor Markers Linearity Set
consists of five levels in
Human based serum. Each
level contains the following
analytes: Alpha fetoprotein
(AFP), Carcinoembryonic
antigen (CEA), CA-125, CA
15-3, Prostate specific
antigen-free (free PSA), total
PSA. The five levels
demonstrate a linear
relationship to each other for
their respective analytes,
reagents, and instruments.
This product may be used for
proficiency testing in
interlaboratory surveys.	Audit™ MicroCV™ General Chemistry
Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of human based
serum. It is intended to simulate human
patient serum samples for the purpose of
monitoring the precision and to detect
systematic analytical deviations of
laboratory testing procedures. This
product may also be used as unassayed
quality control material for these same
analytes and may be used for proficiency
testing in interlaboratory surveys. In
addition, this product may also be used to
perform CLIA directed calibration
verification for these same analytes with
similar reagents on similar
instrumentation in accordance with
current CLIA-88 guidelines and
regulations.
Number of
Analytes per vial	6	30
Number of levels
per set	5	5
Contents	5 x 1 mL	5 x 5 mL
Matrix	Human based serum	Human Based Serum
Type of Analytes	Cancer Markers	General Chemistry
Form	Lyophilized	Lyophilized
Stabilizers	None	None

--- Page 3 ---
Sorbitol
Preservatives Sodium Azide
Sodium Azide
Storage 2 to 8º C Until expiration date 2 to 8º C Until expiration date
Reconstituted 7 days at 2 to 8º C except for enzymes
7 days at 2 to 8º C
Stability and bilirubin, which are 48 hours
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity was determined using CLSI EP6-A. An example linearity graph is as
follows:
350
310.2
300
250
226
200
150 150.8
100
71.8
50
0 3.2
Level A Level B Level C Level D Level E
)lm/gn(
noitartnecnoc
PFA
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
Materials are obtained from approved vendors and put through an internal quality
control process.
Stability:
The stability protocols and acceptance criteria for this product were reviewed and
found to be acceptable. The product has an open-vial stability of 7 days when
stored at 2-8 oC. An accelerated stability study determined a shelf life stability of
2 years when stored at 2-8 oC, and real-time studies are ongoing.
Value Assignment:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Preservatives	Sodium Azide	Sorbitol
Sodium Azide
Storage	2 to 8º C Until expiration date	2 to 8º C Until expiration date
Reconstituted
Stability	7 days at 2 to 8º C	7 days at 2 to 8º C except for enzymes
and bilirubin, which are 48 hours

[Table 2 on page 3]
310.2

226

150.8
71.8
3.2

--- Page 4 ---
Level A (low pool) all analytes are adjusted to be within 5-10% of the lowest
limit of measurability for their corresponding assay. For Level E (high pool), all
analytes are adjusted to be within 5% to 10% of the highest limit of measurability
for their corresponding assay. Levels are then diluted to the following:
Level A = 100% Low Pool
Level B = 75% Low Pool, 25% High Pool
Level C = 50% Low Pool, 50% High Pool
Level D = 25% Low Pool, 75% High Pool
Level E = 100% High Pool
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4