
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K082272
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalent determination for the Voriconazole 1µg, BBL™ Sensi-
Disc™.
C. Measurand:
Susceptibility to Voriconazole 1 µg
D. Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson and Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Becton, Dickinson and Company, BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Voriconazole 1µg
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.1620 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JTN – Susceptibility Test Disc, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disks Voriconazole 1 µg are
used for semi-quantitative in vitro susceptibility testing by the agar disc diffusion test
procedure of fungal pathogens.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Use of Voriconazole 1 µg, BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ for in vitro agar diffusion
susceptibility testing is indicated when there is a need to determine the susceptibility
of pathogens to Voriconazole. The concentration of 1 µg has been shown to be active
in vitro against most strains for Candida species listed below, as described in the
FDA approved drug insert for this agent.
Active In Vitro and in Clinical Infections Against: Candida albicans, Candida
glabrata, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, and Candida tropicalis.
The following data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown.
Voriconazole exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 1 µg/mL
or less against most (≥90%) isolates of the following microorganisms; however, the
safety and effectiveness of Voriconazole in treating clinical infections due to these
Candida species have not been established in adequate and well-controlled clinical
trials:
Candida lusitaniae
Candida guilliermondii
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The Voriconazole 1µg, BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disk
utilizes 6-mm disks prepared by impregnating absorbent paper with a known
concentration of Voriconazole. Each Voriconazole disk is marked on both sides with the
agent (VOR) and drug content (1). Voriconazole cartridges each contain 50 impregnated
disks that are packed as either a single cartridge in a single box, or in a package
containing ten cartridges.

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Ciprofloxacin 5 µg, BBL ™ Sensi-Disc ™ Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disk.
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K874425
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use An in vitro diagnostic same
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
aerobic gram positive and
gram negative bacteria
Inoculum Prepared from pure
isolated colonies using same
the direct inoculation
method or growth method
Inoculation method Directly equated to a 0.5 same
McFarland turbidity
standard
Difference
Item Device Predicate
Antibiotic Voriconazole Ciprofloxacin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI M2-A9 “Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests;
Approved Standard.” CLSI M44-A “Method for Antifungal Disk Diffusion Susceptibility
Testing Yeasts; Approved Guideline”. The Center for Drug Evaluation and Review
(CDER) pharmaceutical approved package insert, developed during clinical trial studies,
was used for Interpretive Criteria and Quality Control (QC) Expected Ranges. The
CDRH guidance document “Review Criteria for Assessment of Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Test Discs” published October 30, 1996.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			An in vitro diagnostic
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
aerobic gram positive and
gram negative bacteria			same		
Inoculum			Prepared from pure
isolated colonies using
the direct inoculation
method or growth method			same		
Inoculation method			Directly equated to a 0.5
McFarland turbidity
standard			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Difference								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Antibiotic			Voriconazole			Ciprofloxacin		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ utilizes dried filter paper disks impregnated with known
concentrations of antifungal agents that are placed onto the test medium surface. The
standard method of testing is the Kirby-Bauer method. Discs containing antifungal
agents are applied to the surface of Mueller Hinton Agar supplemented with 2% Glucose
and 0.5 µg/mL Methylene Blue Dye (GMB) plates that have been inoculated with pure
cultures of clinical isolates. Following incubation, the plates are examined and the zones
of inhibition surrounding the discs are measured and compared with established zone size
ranges for individual antifungal agents in order to determine the agent(s) most suitable
for use in antimicrobial therapy. Five colonies of approximately 1mm in diameter from
a 24 hour old culture of Candida species grown on blood agar or Sabouraud dextrose
agar are transferred to 5 ml of a suitable broth medium. The broth is incubated at 35-37°
C for 2 to 8 hours until a light to moderate turbidity develops. The final inoculum density
should be equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland turbidity standard. The inoculum density may
also be standardized photometrically. Within 15 minutes of inoculum preparation, the
Mueller-Hinton + GMB agar plate is streaked to obtain an even inoculation. Disks are
aseptically placed onto the agar surface with a disk dispenser or sterile forceps to ensure
contact with the test surface. Plates are incubated, agar side up, in an ambient air
incubator at 35-37° C. Examine the plates after 20-24 hours of incubation. Read at 48
hour only when insufficient growth is observed after 24 hour incubation. After incubation
the media is examined, and zones of inhibition around the disks are measured and
compared against recognized zone size ranges for the antimicrobial agent being tested. A
disk diffusion method for testing Candida species was developed and recommended in
CLSI M44 Approved Standard document.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
Descriptive characteristics are sufficient for susceptibility test discs, because the drug
manufacturer performed several clinical outcome studies enrolling around 595 patients,
which were evaluated by CDER to grant approval of Voriconazole. These studies
generated the Interpretive Criteria and QC Expected Ranges which the susceptibility tests
disc manufactures use for interpretation of results also. No additional in vitro diagnostic
clinical studies are therefore required.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not required— Descriptive Characteristics sufficient. b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range in millimeters:
Candida species ≥ 17 mm: Susceptible (S)
Candida species 14-16 mm: Intermediate (I)
Candida species ≤ 13 mm: Resistant (R)
N. The labeling is sufficient, and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.