
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K0822905
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device
C. Measurand:
Factor VIII
D. Type of Test:
ELISA
E. Applicant:
Genetic Testing Institute, Inc. (GTI)
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Factor VIII Antibody Screen
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7290
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGP
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The GTI Diagnostics Factor VIII Antibody Screen assay is a qualitative solid
phase enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) designed to detect IgG
antibodies reactive with recombinant human factor VIII (FVIII) in human serum
and plasma.
2. Indication(s) for use:
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
The GTI Diagnostics Factor VIII Antibody Screen assay is an ELISA with a
colorimetric endpoint. The assay kit is made of a 96 welled microwell plate (in 1 X 8
strips), alkaline phosphatase conjugated goat antibody to human immunoglobulin G, p-
nitrophenyl phosphate substrate, positive and negative control, Stop Solution, diluents,
buffers, wash solutions, and plate sealers.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
GTI Factor VIII Inhibitor Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K993553
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use To detect IgG antibodies same
reactive with recombinant
human factor VIII (FVIII)
in human serum and
plasma.
Technology ELISA with a same
colorimetric endpoint
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reagents Tris buffer containing Tris buffer containing
NaCl, Na azide, bovine NaCl and Na azide as the
serum albumin for specimen diluent
specimen diluent
Formulation Low-volume, flat bottom Starwells with
microwells with Recombinant as the
Kogenate FS as the Factor VIII source.
source of Factor VIII. Microwells are blocked
Microwells are not with bovine serum
blocked albumin
Control Kit control used to Negative Control used to
determine positive determine cutoff for
samples positive samples
Sample Matrix Plasma collected in ACD Plasma collected in ACD
or 3.2% Na citrate, and or 3.2% Na citrate
serum
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP-5A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement
Methods; Approved Guideline.
CLSI - EP7A2, Interference testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline
CLSI – EP12A2, User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance;
Approved Guideline
CLSI – H21A5, Collection, Transport, Processing of Blood Specimens for Testing
Plasma Based Coagulation Assays and Molecular Hemostasis Assays; Approved
Guideline
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
Intended Use			To detect IgG antibodies
reactive with recombinant
human factor VIII (FVIII)
in human serum and
plasma.		same	
Technology			ELISA with a
colorimetric endpoint		same	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
Reagents			Tris buffer containing
NaCl, Na azide, bovine
serum albumin for
specimen diluent		Tris buffer containing
NaCl and Na azide as the
specimen diluent	
Formulation			Low-volume, flat bottom
microwells with
Kogenate FS as the
source of Factor VIII.
Microwells are not
blocked		Starwells with
Recombinant as the
Factor VIII source.
Microwells are blocked
with bovine serum
albumin	
Control			Kit control used to
determine positive
samples		Negative Control used to
determine cutoff for
positive samples	
Sample Matrix			Plasma collected in ACD
or 3.2% Na citrate, and
serum		Plasma collected in ACD
or 3.2% Na citrate	

--- Page 4 ---
CLSI EP9-A2; Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples;
Approved Guideline
BS EN 13612:2002; Performance Evaluation of in vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices
BS EN 13640:2002; Stability Testing of in vitro Diagnostic Reagents
L. Test Principle:
Diluted patient sample is added to microwells coated with recombinant FVIII, and
antibody, if present will bind. Unbound material is washed away, and an alkaline
phosphatase labeled anti-human immunoglobulin reagent (anti IgG) is added to the
wells and incubated. Unbound anti-IgG is washed away and then PNPP (p-
nitrophenyl phosphate) substrate is added. After a 30 minute incubation period, the
reaction is stopped, and the optical density of the color that develops is measured at
405nm.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
8 samples were tested in duplicate in 10 separate assays, and analyzed by
ANOVA for agreement within and between runs. Results demonstrated a
within run imprecision of ≤20% CV and a between run CV of ≤ 24%.
Lot-to Lot Reproducibility was demonstrated by testing 12 samples (7 neg, 5
pos) in duplicate in 3 separate assays, on 3 different kit lots. Results
demonstrated 100% agreement between reportable results for all 3 kit lots.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
d. Detection limit:
e. Analytical specificity:
3 samples (negative, medium, and high FVIII antibody reactivity) were used
4

--- Page 5 ---
to demonstrate interference of hemoglobin, bilirubin, lipid, Gammagaurd
(IVIG) and Rituxan (rituximab). Samples were spiked with interferents and
tested in replicates of 10. Results showed no interference in hemoglobin and
lipemia at 500mg/dL,bilirubin at 10 mg/dL, , IVIG 200mg.dL, Rituxan
10µg/mL.
f. Assay cut-off:
The cutoff value for the Factor VIII Antibody Screen is determined by the kit
control. Any sample with an average OD value > than the average OD value
of the kit control is positive. Any sample with an average OD value ≤ the
average OD value of the kit control is negative.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Accuracy was demonstrated by a 2 site study in which the Factor VIII
Antibody Screen was compared to the Factor VIII Inhibitor Assay and the
Bethesda Assay.
Factor VIII Inhibitor Assay
Factor VIII Pos Neg Total
Pos 89 1 90
Antibody Screen Neg 7 40 47
Total 96 41 137
Bethesda Assay
Factor VIII Pos Neg Total
Pos 35 4 39
Antibody Screen Neg 2 40 42
Total 37 44 81
b. Matrix comparison:
Normal and spiked sample studies were conducted. Paired 3.2% Na citrate
and serum samples was collected from 59 normal donors. Serum, 3.2% Na
citrate, and ACD plasma samples were collected form 14 normal donors.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Pos	Neg	Total
Pos	89	1	90
Neg	7	40	47
Total	96	41	137

[Table 2 on page 5]
	Pos	Neg	Total
Pos	35	4	39
Neg	2	40	42
Total	37	44	81

--- Page 6 ---
Antibody positive plasma was spike in 12 serum and 3.2% Na citrate samples.
24 ACD plasma and 3.2% sodium citrate pairs were spiked with FVIII
antibody positive plasma. All studies demonstrated no difference was
observed between the reportable results obtained from samples collected as
3.2% sodium citrate plasma, ACD Plasma or as serum.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
5. Expected values/Reference range:
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6