
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082030
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Cyclosporine
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator Materials
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator (p/n KC440)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
DLJ Class II 21 CFR§ 862.3200 Toxicology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The CSAE CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of CSAE
method on the Dimension Vista system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista system
I. Device Description:
The Dimension Vista Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator contains cyclosporine
in a preserved whole blood hemolysate. The kit consists of three vials of Calibrator A
(200 ng/mL) and three vials of Calibrator B (2000 ng/mL). The intermediate
calibrator levels (400, 800 and 1400 ng/mL) are prepared on-board the Dimension®
Vista analyzer.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension CSAE Cyclosporine Extended Range Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k061503
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
DLJ			Class II			21 CFR§ 862.3200			Toxicology		

--- Page 2 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
The Dimension Vista CSA Extended Range Calibrator has the same analytes, form,
matrix, stability and traceability as the predicate device. The predicate device is used
for calibration of the Dimension clinical chemistry system and the Syva Emit 2000
Cyclosporine Specific Assay whereas the new device is used for the calibration of the
Dimension Vista system. Another difference is that the new device has two levels
(200 and 2000 ng/mL), with the intermediate levels (400, 800 and 1400 ng/mL)
prepared onboard the Dimension Vista analyzer, whereas the predicate has five
levels (200, 400, 800, 1400 and 2000 ng/mL).
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The calibrator is traceable to an internal master pool containing USP
cyclosporine A. Values are confirmed by LC/MS/MS.
Stability:
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were described and found to
be acceptable. The product stored at -20oC is stable for 12 months. An
unopened but thawed (2 - 8 oC) product is stable for 14 days. A punctured
vial onboard the Dimension Vista system is stable for 14 days, as is an open
(non-punctured) vial refrigerated at 2 - 8 oC. The intermediate calibrators that
are prepared onboard the Dimension Vista system are prepared fresh each
time they are needed, and then disposed of immediately afterwards.
Value Assignment:
Values are assigned to commercial stocks by using a Dimension or Dimension
Vista instrument calibrated with master pools. The master pools are created
by gravimetric addition of Cyclosporine USP Reference Material into drug
free whole blood hemolysate and are assigned values using Dimension
instruments calibrated with anchor pools. The anchor pools are prepared
through the same method but are assigned values using LC/MS/MS.
2

--- Page 3 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
3