
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082638
B. Purpose for Submission:
This is a new 510(k) to support the integration of a StreamLAB Laboratory
Automation System (LAS) (k043546) to the ADVIA Centaur Analyzer (k041133)
using the ADVIA Centaur T4 Assay (k905532) to show acceptable performance.
C. Measurand:
Thyroxine
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative Chemiluminescent Immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Advia Centaur System with StreamLAB Analytical Workcell
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec.862.1700 Total thyroxine test system.
21CFR Sec.- 862.2160-Discrete photometric chemistry analyzer for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I, respectively
3. Product code:
KLI - Enzyme Immunoassay, Non-Radiolabeled, Total Thyroxine
JJE - Analyzer, Chemistry (Photometric, Discrete), For Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB Analytical Workcell is an automated
immunoassay analyzer designed to perform in vitro diagnostic immunochemical
assay analysis on clinical specimens. The system menu will include assays based
on chemiluminescent technology, such as Thyroxine, along with other various

--- Page 2 ---
chemiluminescent assays that may be adaptable to the analyzer depending on the
reagent used to induce the chemiluminescent reaction.
The ADVIA Centaur T4 assay is for in vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative
determination of thyroxine (T4) in serum on the ADVIA Centaur and ADVIA
Centaur XP systems. Measurements obtained by this device are used in the
diagnosis and treatment of thyroid diseases.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB® Analytical Workcell
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur is a continuous operation, immunochemistry analyzer designed
to perform in vitro diagnostic testing on clinical specimens.
The StreamLAB® Analytical Workcell is a laboratory automation system (LAS)
designed to automate sample handling and processing in the clinical laboratory.
The ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB® Analytical Workcell combines the features
of both the analyzer and the laboratory automation system.
The StreamLAB routes samples to the Centaur analyzer based on test request
information it (StreamLAB) receives from the Laboratory Information System (LIS)
and the test map established for the Centaur analyzer. StreamLAB and Centaur
communicate sample and analyzer status via Centaur’s Laboratory Automation
System (LAS) interface. Via its LIS interface, the Centaur analyzer interfaces
separately with the hospital’s LIS to receive its test instructions (test requests) and to
report results for each sample. Centaur’s test instructions and test results for each
sample are not processed through the StreamLAB.
The StreamLAB performs the following pre and post-analytical functions.
• Sample bar code identification (previously performed by the Centaur)
• Sample transport and tracking
• Sample centrifugation (optional functionality)
• Sample de-capping (optional functionality)
• Sample transport and tracking
• Tube sealing (optional functionality)
The Centaur continues to perform the following functions, when connected to the
StreamLAB.
All functions except reading the sample tube bar code. When Centaur is connected to
2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---
StreamLAB, samples can be loaded directly onto Centaur and/or loaded onto
StreamLAB and routed to Centaur. For samples loaded onto StreamLAB,
StreamLAB reads the sample tube bar code (sample identification) and passes it
electronically to Centaur via the LAS interface to Centaur.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ADVIA Centaur T4 Assay
ADVIA Centaur Analyzer
StreamLAB Laboratory Automation System (LAS)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k905532, k041133, and k043546 respectively
3. Comparison with predicate:
Predicate device: Proposed device:
Feature ADVIA Centaur ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB Analytical
(K041133) Workcell
Principles of Chemiluminescence using magnetic-particle solid phase and
Operation chemiluminescent label
Optical System Photomultiplier tube used in photon counting mode
Sample Sample cups or primary
Sample cups* or primary tubes
Containers tubes
Sample Load directly onto the Load directly onto the Centaur and/or load onto
Loading Centaur the StreamLAB
Manually centrifuged Manually centrifuged samples or automatically
samples centrifuged samples by the StreamLAB.
Serum &
Plasma Sample
Manually decapped sample tubes or
Preparation
Manually decapped automatically decapped tubes by StreamLAB.
sample tubes
Tube bar code (identification) is read by the
Centaur (when tubes are placed directly on the
Sample
Tube bar code Centaur);
Identification
(identification) is read by
of Bar-coded
the Centaur. or tube bar code read by StreamLAB and
Tubes
communicated electronically to the Centaur
(when tubes are loaded onto StreamLAB).
Test Orders Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Test Results Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Laboratory Centaur’s software communicates with Lab Automation System via LAS
Automation interface. Centaur performs direct sampling from tube on the track.
* Sample cups cannot be used on the StreamLAB. Sample cups must be loaded directly onto
the Centaur when connected to the StreamLAB. The StreamLAB does not impact Centaur’s
capability to accept sample cups.
3 of 7

[Table 1 on page 3]
Feature		Predicate device:			Proposed device:	
		ADVIA Centaur			ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB Analytical	
		(K041133)			Workcell	
Principles of Chemiluminescence using magnetic-particle solid phase and
Operation chemiluminescent label
Optical System Photomultiplier tube used in photon counting mode
Sample Sample cups or primary
Sample cups* or primary tubes
Containers tubes
Sample Load directly onto the Load directly onto the Centaur and/or load onto
Loading Centaur the StreamLAB
Manually centrifuged Manually centrifuged samples or automatically
samples centrifuged samples by the StreamLAB.
Serum &
Plasma Sample
Manually decapped sample tubes or
Preparation
Manually decapped automatically decapped tubes by StreamLAB.
sample tubes
Tube bar code (identification) is read by the
Centaur (when tubes are placed directly on the
Sample
Tube bar code Centaur);
Identification
(identification) is read by
of Bar-coded
the Centaur. or tube bar code read by StreamLAB and
Tubes
communicated electronically to the Centaur
(when tubes are loaded onto StreamLAB).
Test Orders Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Test Results Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Laboratory Centaur’s software communicates with Lab Automation System via LAS
Automation interface. Centaur performs direct sampling from tube on the track.
* Sample cups cannot be used on the StreamLAB. Sample cups must be loaded directly onto
the Centaur when connected to the StreamLAB. The StreamLAB does not impact Centaur’s
capability to accept sample cups.						

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced
L. Test Principle:
Chemiluminescence using magnetic-particle solid phase and chemiluminescent label
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of ADVIA Centaur T4 Assay was evaluated by analyzing three
levels of a quality control product in triplicate once a day for five (5) days on
the Advia Centaur System with StreamLAB Analytical Workcell. The data
were analyzed using Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). The results are similar
to the precision of the predicate device.
S.D. (%CV)
LEVEL n Mean Repeatability Within Laboratory
1 15 5.45 μg/dL 0.13 (2.4) 0.25 (4.7)
2 15 8.26 μg/dL 0.18 (2.1) 0.28 (3.4)
3 15 14.49 μg/dL 0.39 (2.7) 0.44 (3.0
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Provided in k905532
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Provided in k905532
d. Detection limit:
Provided in k905532
e. Analytical specificity:
Provided in k905532
f. Assay cut-off:
Provided in k905532
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Split-sample method comparison studies were conducted using the ADVIA Centaur
T4 Assay. Samples were processed on the predicate device and on the proposed
device. The data were analyzed by linear regression and the results are summarized
in the table below.
4 of 7

[Table 1 on page 4]
			S.D. (%CV)	
LEVEL	n	Mean	Repeatability	Within Laboratory
1	15	5.45 μg/dL	0.13 (2.4)	0.25 (4.7)
2	15	8.26 μg/dL	0.18 (2.1)	0.28 (3.4)
3	15	14.49 μg/dL	0.39 (2.7)	0.44 (3.0

--- Page 5 ---
Slope Intercept r Sy,x n Range
1.050 -0.299 0.993 0.36 66 1.60 – 17.00 µg/dL
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Provided in k905532
N. Instrument Name:
Advia Centaur System with StreamLAB Analytical Workcell
5 of 7

[Table 1 on page 5]
Slope	Intercept	r	Sy,x	n	Range
1.050 -0.299 0.993 0.36 66 1.60 – 17.00 µg/dL					

--- Page 6 ---
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The ADVIA Centaur is a continuous operation, immunochemistry analyzer
designed to perform in vitro diagnostic testing on clinical specimens.
Pre-analytical and Post-analytical activity is performed by StreamLAB.
Centaur’s software communicates with Lab Automation System via LAS
interface. Centaur performs direct sampling from tube on the track.
The ADVIA Centaur with StreamLAB Analytical Workcell combines the features
of both the analyzer and the laboratory automation system.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ____X___ or No ________
The applicant provided software documentation that supports the device was
designed and developed under good software LifeCycle processes.
3. Specimen Identification:
Sample tube bar code (identification) is read by the Centaur (when tubes are
placed directly on the Centaur); or sample tube bar code read by StreamLAB and
communicated electronically to the Centaur (when tubes are loaded onto
StreamLAB).
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Load directly onto the Centaur and/or load onto the StreamLAB, Manually
centrifuged samples or automatically centrifuged samples by the StreamLAB.
Manually decapped sample tubes or automatically decapped tubes by
StreamLAB. Sample cups cannot be used on the StreamLAB. Sample cups must be
loaded directly onto the Centaur when connected to the StreamLAB. The StreamLAB
does not impact Centaur’s capability to accept sample cups.
5. Calibration:
Provided in k041133
6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
6. Quality Control:
Provided in k041133
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7 of 7