
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082067
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Control material for Multi-Analytes: Cholesterol, Triglycerides, HDL Cholesterol
and LDL Cholesterol
D. Type of Test:
Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MSC Lipid Control
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY Class I, reserved 21 CFR§ 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The MSC Lipid Control is intended for use as an assayed control material to
monitor the ongoing precision of clinical laboratory analysis for Cholesterol,
Triglycerides, HDL Cholesterol, and LDL Cholesterol. This material is intended
for use on automated, semi-automated, and manual clinical chemistry analyzer
systems.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Instruments listed in the package insert include the following: Roche Hitachi 911,
Roche HitachiModP, Roche Hitachi 917, Dade Dimension Expand, and the
Beckman Coulter LX.
I. Device Description:
The MSC Lipid Control is a human serum based liquid control containing stabilized
Cholesterol, Triglycerides, HDL Cholesterol and LDL Cholesterol of human origin.
The device consists of six vials total, three vials at each of two levels (Level 1: 3 x
7mL and Level 2: 3 x 7mL). All human source materials were tested by FDA
approved methods and found to be negative for HIV-1, HIV-2, HCV, and HBsAg.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJY			Class I, reserved			21 CFR§ 862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad Liquichek Lipids Control, Level 1 and 2
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k012513
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device: MSC Lipid Control Predicate: Bio-Rad
Liquichek Lipids Control
Intended Use Assayed control material to Assayed control serum to
monitor the ongoing monitor the precision of
precision of clinical laboratory testing
laboratory analysis for procedures for the analytes
Cholesterol, Triglycerides, listed in the package insert
HDL Cholesterol and LDL
Cholesterol
Levels Two Two
Matrix Human serum based liquid Human serum based liquid
Differences
Number of Constituents Four Eight
Constituents Cholesterol Cholesterol
Triglycerides Triglycerides
HDL Cholesterol HDL Cholesterol
LDL Cholesterol LDL Cholesterol
Apolipoprotein A-1
Apolipoprotein B
C-Reactive Protein
Lipoprotein Lp(a)
Target Range Different assigned values Different assigned values
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• ISO 14971:2000, Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical
devices.
• FDA Guidance: Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(k)s (2005).
• FDA Guidance: Points to Consider for Review of Calibration and Quality
Control Labeling for in vitro Diagnostic Devices (1996).
• CLSI EP5-A2: Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative
Measurement Methods; Approved Guideline – Second Edition.
• CLSI C24-A3: Statistical Quality Control for Quantitative Measurement
Procedures: Principles and Definitions: Approved Guideline – Third Edition.
• CDRH: Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality
Control Material (2007).
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities				
Item	Device: MSC Lipid Control		Predicate: Bio-Rad	
			Liquichek Lipids Control	
Intended Use	Assayed control material to
monitor the ongoing
precision of clinical
laboratory analysis for
Cholesterol, Triglycerides,
HDL Cholesterol and LDL
Cholesterol	Assayed control serum to
monitor the precision of
laboratory testing
procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert		
Levels	Two	Two		
Matrix	Human serum based liquid	Human serum based liquid		
Differences				
Number of Constituents	Four	Eight		
Constituents	Cholesterol
Triglycerides
HDL Cholesterol
LDL Cholesterol	Cholesterol
Triglycerides
HDL Cholesterol
LDL Cholesterol
Apolipoprotein A-1
Apolipoprotein B
C-Reactive Protein
Lipoprotein Lp(a)		
Target Range	Different assigned values	Different assigned values		

--- Page 3 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
Values assigned to the assayed controls are traceable to the reference
standards used by the assay manufacturer to establish instrument response in
their assays.
Stability:
Stability and acceptance criteria were reviewed and the stability claims for the
MSC Lipid Control are as follows. Unopened – stable until expiration date at
-10o to-20oC, Opened – stable for 30 days at 2o to 8oC. The device is under
continuing real-stability testing, but current data is supportive of the
aforementioned claims.
Value Assignment:
The two level MSC Lipid Control was tested at independent laboratories using
different clinical systems. Twenty runs were performed in singlet at each
location. The analytes were tested on the following platforms: Roche Hitachi
911, Roche Hitachi ModP, Roche Hitachi 917 (the Roche Hitachi 917
1aboratory does not run LDL Cholesterol), Dade Dimension Expand and the
Beckman Coulter LX. Data for Cholesterol, Triglycerides, HDL Cholesterol,
and LDL Cholesterol were collected, statistically analyzed, and the range
calculated for each clinical platform (n = 20 per platform).
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4