
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K082859
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Submission
C. Measurand:
PT, APTT, Fibrinogen
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Instrumentation Laboratory Co.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
HemosIL Routine Control Level 1, 2, and 3
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425 Multipurpose System for In Vitro Coagulation Studies
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
HemosIL Routine Control Level 1 is for the quality control of coagulation assays
in the normal range. The product is intended in the assessment of precision and
accuracy for PT, APTT, and Fibrinogen tests performed on coagulation systems.
HemosIL Routine Control Level 2 is for the quality control of coagulation assays
in the low abnormal range. The product is intended in the assessment of precision
and accuracy for PT, and APTT tests performed on coagulation systems.
HemosIL Routine Control Level 1 is for the quality control of coagulation assays
in the high abnormal range. The product is intended in the assessment of precision
and accuracy for PT, and APTT tests performed on coagulation systems.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
N/A
4. Special instrument requirements:
N/A
I. Device Description:
The HemosIL Routine Control Level 1 is a lyophilized product prepared using human
citrated plasma from healthy donors. It contains buffer, stabilizers and preservatives.
The HemosIL Routine Control Level 2 is a lyophilized product prepared using human
citrated plasma from healthy donors (not heparinized plasma or plasma samples under
oral anticoagulant therapy) and modified, by means of a dedicated process, to stimulate
an abnormal coagulation sample. It contains buffer and stabilizers. No preservatives are
included.
The HemosIL Routine Control Level 3 is a lyophilized product prepared using human
citrated plasma from healthy donors (not heparinized plasma or plasma samples under
oral anticoagulant therapy) and modified, by means of a dedicated process, to stimulate
an abnormal coagulation sample. It contains buffer and stabilizers. No preservatives are
included
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
K021023 HemosIL Normal Control
K021022 HemosIL Low Abnormal Control
K021024 HemosIL High Abnormal Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
See Above
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use: For the Same K021023 HemosIL
quality control of Normal Control,
coagulation assays in the K021022 HemosIL Low
normal, low abnormal, Abnormal Control,
and high abnormal K021024 HemosIL High
range. Abnormal Control
Same
Matrix Human Plasma Same
Form Lyophilized Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Assayed Control Assayed Control Unassayed Control
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended Use: For the
quality control of
coagulation assays in the
normal, low abnormal,
and high abnormal
range.			Same			K021023 HemosIL
Normal Control,
K021022 HemosIL Low
Abnormal Control,
K021024 HemosIL High
Abnormal Control
Same	
Matrix			Human Plasma			Same	
Form			Lyophilized			Same	
							

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Assayed Control			Assayed Control			Unassayed Control		

--- Page 4 ---
N/A
L. Test Principle:
N/A
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within run precision was assessed over multiple runs using the three levels of
HemosIL Routine Control with specific lots of reagents on representative
coagulation systems: ACL 9000, ACL Advance, ACL 300, ACL 6000. ACL
Advance, and ACL 300 for PT, APTT and Fibrinogen. Reagents used in the
analysis included HemosIL PT-Fibrinogen Recombinant, HemosIL PT-
Fibrinogen, HemosIL PT-Fibrinogen HS Plus, HemosIL APTT-SP, HemosIL
SynthAFax, and HemosIL SynthASil. Within Run and Between Run %CVs
were within the specifications.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
A real-time shelf-life study was performed using three lots of HemosIL
Routine Control Level 1, 2, and 3. Vials of the control were tested in
quadruplicate at Day 0 and stored at 2-8ºC in the original vials for the duration
of testing. At each time interval, the three lots of control were tested at a
minimum in duplicate on a representative coagulation system using
representative reagents. The data presented supports the real-time stability
claim of 36 months for HemosIL Control Level I and 24 months for Level 2
and 3.
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
4

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
N/A
b. Clinical specificity:
N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The reported Acceptance Ranges were determined over multiple runs on an ACL
Classic System (100-7000) using specific reagents.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
5

--- Page 6 ---
6