
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082271
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of Fluconazole to the BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Antimicrobial Susceptibility
Test Disc
C. Measurand:
Fluconazole 25 μg
D. Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Disc
E. Applicant:
BD Diagnostic Systems
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Fluconazole 25 ug BBL™ Sensi-Disc™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1620
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
JTN Susceptibility Test Disc, Antimicrobial
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Fluconazole Antimicrobial Susceptibility Discs are used for
semi-quantitative in vitro susceptibility testing by the agar disc diffusion test
procedure of fungal pathogens.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Use of Fluconazole 25 ug, BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ for in vitro agar diffusion
susceptibility testing is indicated when there is a need to determine the
susceptibility of pathogens to Fluconazole. The concentration of 25 ug has been
shown to be active in vitro against most strains of Candida albicans, Candida
glabrata (many strains are intermediately susceptible), Candida parapsilosis, and
Candid tropicalis.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
Isolates of C. krusei are assumed to be intrinsically resistant to fluconazole and
their zone diameters should not be interpreted using the FDA interpretive criteria.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
Fluconazole 25 ug BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ is prepared by impregnating high quality
paper accurately with determined amounts of Fluconazole supplied by the drug
manufacturer. Each Fluconazole disk is clearly marked on both sides with the agent
and drug content. Fluconazole cartridges each contain 50 impregnated disks that are
packed as either a single cartridge in a single box, or in a package containing ten
cartridges. Fluconazole disks are used for semi-quantitative in vitro susceptibility
evaluations by the agar diffusion test method.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
BBL™ Sensi-Disc™ Antimicrobial Susceptibility test Disks, Ciprofloxacin 5 μg
2. Predicate K number(s):
k874425
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
1. Intended Use test susceptibility to same
pathogenic isolates
2. Inoculum pure colonies same
3. Results minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC)
results based on
measurements of zone
diameters
3. Interpretation categorical interpretations same
(S-I-R) using the
measured zone diameters
Differences
Item Device Predicate
1. Test organisms fungi bacteria
2. Antibiotic fluconazole 25 μg ciprofloxacin 5 μg
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Zone Diameter Interpretive Standards, Corresponding Minimal Inhibitory
Concentration (MIC) Interpretive Breakpoints, and Quality Control Limits for
Antifungal Disk Diffusion Susceptibility Testing of Yeasts; Informational
Supplement M44-S2; The Center for Drug, Evaluation, and Review (CDER)
pharmaceutical approved package insert, developed during clinical trial studies, was
used for Interpretive Criteria and Quality Control (QC) expected ranges.
L. Test Principle:
Disks containing a wide variety of selected agents are applied to the surface of
Mueller Hinton Agar plates, supplemented as needed and inoculated with pure culture
of clinical isolates. Following incubation, the plates are examined and the zones of
inhibition surrounding the disks are measured and compared with established zone
size ranges for individual agents in order to determine the agent(s) most suitable for
use in therapy. The categorical interpretation [susceptible (S), intermediate (I), or
resistant (R)] for the organism being tested is made by comparing zone diameters to
those found in the approved pharmaceutical package insert.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
1. Intended Use			test susceptibility to
pathogenic isolates		same	
2. Inoculum			pure colonies		same	
3. Results			minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC)
results based on
measurements of zone
diameters			
3. Interpretation			categorical interpretations
(S-I-R) using the
measured zone diameters		same	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
1. Test organisms			fungi		bacteria	
2. Antibiotic			fluconazole 25 μg		ciprofloxacin 5 μg	

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable): (Descriptive characteristics
were sufficient for this disc, because the drug studies that CDER evaluated generated the
Interpretive Criteria and Quality Control (QC) Expected Ranges used for review of this
device.)
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not Applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Disk Diffusion at 24 hours (Zone Diameters in mm)
Antimicrobial Susceptible (S) Intermediate (I)** Resistant (R)
Agent
Fluconazole* ≥19 15 – 18 ≤14
* Isolates of C. krusei are assumed to be intrinsically resistant to fluconazole and
their MICs and/or zone diameters should not be interpreted using this scale.
** The intermediate category is sometimes called Susceptible-Dose Dependent
(SDD) and both categories are equivalent for fluconazole.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The Interpretative criteria, QC isolates and expected ranges are the same as
recommended by the FDA/CDER in the approved pharmaceutical package insert. All
values will be included in the device package insert.
O. Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Disk Diffusion at 24 hours (Zone Diameters in mm)		
Antimicrobial
Agent	Susceptible (S)	Intermediate (I)**	Resistant (R)
Fluconazole*	≥19	15 – 18	≤14
			