
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082680
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator material for N-terminal-pro-brain natriuretic peptide
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator material
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LOCI NTP CAL
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150 Calibrator, secondary
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT
4. Panel:
75 Chemistry
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The LOCI NTP CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the N-
terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide methods on the Dimension® EXL
integrated chemistry system with LOCI® Module.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension ® EXL integrated chemistry system with LOCI® Module
I. Device Description:
The LOCI NTP CAL is a frozen liquid product containing synthetic human N-
terminal peptide in bovine albumin matrix with stabilizers and preservative. The kit
consists of ten vials, two vials per level (1, 2, 3, 4 and 5), 1.0 mL per vial.
The calibrator contains human source material. Each donor unit used in the
preparation of this product was tested by FDA-approved methods for the presence of
antibodies to Human immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) and Type 2 (HIV-2),
and found to be negative (not repeatedly reactive).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension Vista® PBNP Calibrator
2. Predicate K number(s):
k080578
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Synthetic PBNP Synthetic PBNP
Matrix Bovine albumin Bovine albumin
Form Liquid, frozen Liquid, frozen
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Instrument Dimension ® EXL Dimension Vista®
integrated chemistry
system with LOCI®
Module
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The LOCI NTP CAL is a liquid product packaged as ten vials, two vials at
each of five levels, to be stored at -20 º C. The artificial matrix is BSA based
spiked with synthetic NT-proBNP peptide. The master pool is a multi-level
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			Synthetic PBNP			Synthetic PBNP		
Matrix			Bovine albumin			Bovine albumin		
Form			Liquid, frozen			Liquid, frozen		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Instrument			Dimension ® EXL
integrated chemistry
system with LOCI®
Module			Dimension Vista®		

--- Page 4 ---
liquid BSA-based artificial matrix spiked with synthetic NT-proBNP peptide
stored at -70 º C. Values are assigned to each lot of calibrator from the master
pool using the Dimension® EXL NTP method. Values are assigned to the
master pool from the patient sample anchor pool which has been assigned on
the Elecsys PBNP assay to which the Dimension® EXL NTP method is
traceable.
The LOCI NTP CAL is stored at -20 to -10 ºC and is stable until the
expiration date. Thawed unopened product is stable for 30 days at 2-8 ºC.
Once the vial is opened, assigned values are stable for 30 days when recapped
immediately after use and stored at 2-8 ºC. The shelf life and open stability of
the calibrator have been demonstrated using real time data. Shelf life is
determined by comparing results of the product stored at -20 ºC with the
control material stored at -70 º C. Open vial stability is determined by
comparing results of vials thawed, opened and recapped stored at 4 º C up to
31 days with the control material and test material stored at -70 ºC and -20 ºC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Values for the calibrator materials are provided on the labels.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5