
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K082631
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of new assay
C. Measurand:
Protein S
D. Type of Test:
Clotting
E. Applicant:
R2 Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ThromboTek PSe
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7290
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
GGP
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The ThromboTek PSe is a quantitative assay for the determination of protein S
activity in human plasma by clotting.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Deficiencies of protein S are associated with an increased risk of thrombosis.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
ThromboTek PSe is a tissue factor pathway based clotting assay. The assay activator
is a lyophilized preparation incorporating rabbit thromboplastin, calcium, buffer, and
stabilizers. The remaining components of the assay are lyophilized activated Protein
C, lyophilized human plasma depleted of Protein S, imidazole buffered saline, and
deionized water containing a preservative for reconstitution of the lyophilized
components.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Diagnostica Stago StaClot® Protein S
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K913424
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Quantitative Same
determination of
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Quantitative
determination of			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
functional Protein S
activity
Sample requirement Citrated plasma same
Assay principle Clotting same
Reagents Activator, aPC, Protein S same
deficient plasma
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Linearity 1- 156% 10 -105%
Sensitivity 1% 8%
Reagents Buffered saline and Owen-Koller buffer and
reconstitution solution calcium chloride
included in assay kit purchased separately,
reconstitution grade
water provided by user
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI/NCCLS EP5-A2, “Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative
Measurement Methods Approved Guideline- Second Edition”
CLSI/NCCLS EP15-A2, “User Verification of Performance for Precision and
Trueness: Approved Guideline-Second Edition”, 2005
H21-A5, “Collection, Transport and Processing of Blood Samples for Testing
Plasma-based Coagulation Assays and Molecular Hemostasis Assays; Approved
Guideline-Fifth Edition”, 2008
L. Test Principle:
The Tissue Factor pathway of coagulation is activated when endogenous FVII or
activated FVIIa in the sample plasma is mixed with tissue factor in the presence of
calcium. This TF/FVIIa complex activates Factor X (FX) to FXa. Factor Xa
complexes with activated Factor V (FVa) on a lipid surface in the presence of calcium
to form a prothrombinase complex. The prothrombinase complex activates
prothrombin to thrombin. Thrombin cleaves fibrinogen to fibrin leading to formation
of a solid clot.
Activated Protein C (aPC) in the presence of its cofactor Protein S degrades FVa,
reducing the efficiency of the prothrombinase complex. When there is an excess of
aPC, the concentration of Protein S in the patient sample is rate limiting. Thus, the
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			functional Protein S
activity					
Sample requirement			Citrated plasma			same		
Assay principle			Clotting			same		
Reagents			Activator, aPC, Protein S
deficient plasma			same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Linearity			1- 156%			10 -105%		
Sensitivity			1%			8%		
Reagents			Buffered saline and
reconstitution solution
included in assay kit			Owen-Koller buffer and
calcium chloride
purchased separately,
reconstitution grade
water provided by user		

--- Page 4 ---
time for the patient plasma to clot is proportional to the concentration of the PS in the
sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision studies were conducted in accordance with CLSI/NCCLS Guideline
EP5-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement
Methods; Approved Guideline-Second Edition. Three lots of the assay kit was
used to determine precision in a two run per day, twenty day exercise on an
AMAX 200 analyzer in mechanical mode using a normal and abnormal
plasma.
Plasma Repeatability Total
Normal 4.9% 5.7%
Abnormal 7.8% 9.2%
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Three lots of linearity testing using ISTH/SCC plasma demonstrated
ThromboTek PSe linearity of 10- 156% Protein S.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Assay recommends the use of pooled normal plasma or purchased reference
plasma for calibration, and the use of purchased quality control material for
QC
d. Detection limit:
Lower limit of detection was determined by testing 30 replicates of the assay
buffer on 3 lots of the ThromboTek PSe assay. The mean, standard deviation
(SD), and mean + 3SD of the clot times were calculated for all three lots. The
LoD was calculated as 1%.
e. Analytical specificity:
Hemoglobin, bilirubin, lipid, and heparin interference was tested by spiking
the interferent into pooled normal plasma and preparing serial dilutions. The
maximum concentration tolerated in the assay was defined as the highest
concentration of interferent resulting in a <10% difference in the base result.
The maximum concentrations were:
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Plasma	Repeatability	Total
Normal	4.9%	5.7%
Abnormal	7.8%	9.2%

--- Page 5 ---
Interferent Added Interferent Maximum concentration Maximum tolerated
Tested concentration
Hemolysis Hemoglobin 500 mg/dL 500 mg/dL
Icterus Unconjugated 20 mg/dL 20 mg/dL
Bilirubin
Lipemia IntraLipid® 2,000 mg triglycerides/dL 2,000 mg triglycerides/dL
Heparin Heparin 2.0 Units/mL 1.0 units/mL
f. Assay cut-off:
n/a
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
174 patient samples were assayed on multiple lots of ThromboTek PSe. Data
was collected at two sites, one using an Trinity Biotech AMAX 200 analyzer
and the other a Diagnostica Stago STA4, and yielded correlation statistics of
y = 1.711x -8.89, r = 0.895
b. Matrix comparison:
n/a
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
n/a
b. Clinical specificity:
n/a
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
n/a
4. Clinical cut-off:
n/a
5. Expected values/Reference range:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Interferent	Added Interferent	Maximum concentration
Tested	Maximum tolerated
concentration
Hemolysis	Hemoglobin	500 mg/dL	500 mg/dL
Icterus	Unconjugated
Bilirubin	20 mg/dL	20 mg/dL
Lipemia	IntraLipid®	2,000 mg triglycerides/dL	2,000 mg triglycerides/dL
Heparin	Heparin	2.0 Units/mL	1.0 units/mL

--- Page 6 ---
120 normal donors (85 females, 35 males) were assayed on 3 kits of the
ThromboTek PSe. Mean, and two standard deviation ranges were calculated for
males (62 – 209), females (45 – 183), and combined male and female (47-193)
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6