
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number: K082472
B. Purpose for Submission: Initial Premarket Notification
C. Measurand: Preservation of viability and infectivity of viral specimens for viral
culture
D. Type of Device: Transport and Culture Medium Devices
E. Applicant: Medical Wire & Equipment Company (Bath) Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names: Virocult® Virus Collection and Transport
System
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LIO [Device, Specimen Class I Microbiological specimen Microbiology (83)
Collection] collection and transport device
21 CFR 866.2900
H. Intended Use:
Medical Wire & Equipment Virocult® Virus Collection and Transport System is intended
to preserve the viability and infectivity of viral specimens for viral culture after their
collection and during transport from the collection site to the testing laboratory. Virocult
specimens are processed using standard clinical laboratory operating procedures for viral
and cell culture.
3) Special conditions for use statement(s): For Prescription Use Only
4) Special instrument requirements: No special instruments are required for the device
I. Device Description: Each Virocult® device comprises a sterile peel pouch containing a
rayon-tipped swab used to collect the sample and a tube containing an open cell
polyurethane pad soaked with Virocult® virus transport medium. After sampling, the
swab applicator is placed inside the tube, where the bud is bathed with the liquid from the
foam pad.
Virocult® medium consists of a phosphate-buffered balanced salt solution, glucose,
lactalbumin hydrolysate to stabilise the virus particles, and antibiotics to inhibit the
growth of other microorganisms that may be present in the clinical specimen.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section		Panel	
LIO [Device, Specimen
Collection]			Class I			Microbiological specimen
collection and transport device
21 CFR 866.2900			Microbiology (83)	

--- Page 2 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
a) Predicate device name (s):
Becton Dickinson Viral Culturette™
Copan Viral Transystem™
b) Predicate K numbers (s):
K800832
K001780
Technological characteristics and substantial equivalence
Medical Wire & Equipment’s Virocult® products are substantially equivalent in design,
intended use, and overall function to other FDA cleared commercially distributed
products used for the collection and transport of viruses. Specifically Virocult® products
are equivalent to the Becton Dickinson Viral Culturette (K800832), and the Copan Viral
Transystem (K001780).
Medical Wire & Equipment’s Virocult® device is a sterile, single use device intended for
use in the collection, transport, and preservation of microbial specimens for viral culture.
The candidate and predicate devices are equivalent in design and function in that single
applicators are used for collection of the specimen and the swab applicator is then
inserted into a tube containing medium for transport and preservation. Virocult® is are
offered in a collection kit formats with specimen collection swabs.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. CLSI. ‘Quality Control of Microbiological Transport Systems’; Approved Standard
M40-A. CLSI (formerly NCCLS) document M40-A [ISBN 1-56238-520-8]. CLSI, 940
West Valley Road, Suite 1400, Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087-1898 USA, 2003.
2.Reed, L. J., and H. Muench. 1938. A simple method of estimating fifty percent
endpoints. Am. J. Hyg. 27:493-497.
L. Test Principle: Virocult® tubes contain a liquid medium to keep the specimen moist,
and to maintain any viruses in a viable condition until they can be investigated at the
laboratory by viral culture. The liquid medium consists of a balanced salt solution for
maintaining osmotic pressure within physiological limits and phosphate buffers to
stabilize the pH of the medium. The phosphate-buffered balanced salt solution contains
glucose, lactalbumin hydrolysate to stabilize the virus particles, and antibiotics to inhibit
the growth of other microorganisms that may be present in the clinical specimen.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable): The studies were conducted to
evaluate the performance characteristics of the Medical Wire Virocult® using pure
laboratory virus strains spiked onto a swab.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Recovery Studies: Virocult virus transport swabs were tested in accordance with CLSI
(NCCLS) ‘Quality Control of Microbiological Transport Systems; Approved Standard
M40-A (2003). Known concentrations of Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV 2) and
®
Adenovirus type 3 were inoculated, in triplicate, into the Virocult swabs of different lot
numbers and expiration dates and held at 22°C and 4°C. The swabs were sampled every
day for four days (24 to 96 hours as per the standard). The results showed the Virocult
device maintains the viability of virus as set out in the standard.
Hep-2 and A549 cell lines used routinely in the laboratory were utilised as the cell lines
to support the growth of Adenovirus and HSV 2. Fresh working lots of a low passage
number (<15) were split into tube cultures to have a confluent monolayer after 24 hours.
Adenovirus type 3, ATCC VR-3 and HSV 2, ATCC VR-734 were obtained from the
American Type Culture Collection and used to assess the performance of the swabs.
Methods: The viruses were inoculated into a flask containing a confluent monolayer of
Hep-2 for Adenovirus 3 and A549 for HSV 2. Once the most of the monolayer showed
CPE, the virus was harvested and stored for use as the stock suspension of virus.
Stock suspensions of Adenovirus 3 and HSV type 2 were serially diluted using 10-fold
dilutions and, in triplicate, inoculated into fresh Hep-2 and A549 tube cultures.
Once CPE was obtained, the inoculum for 50,000 TCID/ml was calculated as originally
described by Reed and Muench (1938, Am. J. Hyg. 27:493-497). For both viruses this
was calculated to be 0.3 ml of stock suspension. The swabs were inoculated, in triplicate,
with 0.3 ml of stock suspension of virus, mixed thoroughly with the medium in the
device and held at either 4°C or 22°C. On each appropriate day, 0.2 ml was withdrawn,
inoculated into the appropriate tube culture and observed for CPE. The tubes were
removed once ++++ CPE (100%) was observed. To compare using a much lower virus
titer, the procedure was also carried out using an inoculum of stock virus into the swabs
of 10,000 TCID/ml.
Results: The studies showed that Virocult allowed the recovery of viable Adenovirus
Type 3 and HSV 2 viruses for at least 96 hours after inoculation at both 4OC and 22OC.
Adenovirus Type 3 and HSV 2 had viral titers of 50,000 and 10,000 TCID/ml.
respectively. Stability studies were performed on Medical Wire & Equipment’s Virocult®
products to support performance for a 12-month expiration date. Recovery testing, pH
testing, toxicity testing and visual inspection were performed which demonstrated the
stability of Medical Wire & Equipment’s Virocult® over its 12 month shelf life.
N. Proposed Labeling: The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21
CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion: The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and
supports a substantial equivalence decision.
3