
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082538
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the Phoenix Inducible Macrolide resistance (iMLSb) test to the BD
Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System
C. Measurand:
Inducible Macrolide resistance (iMLSb) test (Clindamycin/Erythromycin)
D. Type of Test:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) (Qualitative) colorimetric oxidation-
reduction, growth-based
E. Applicant:
Becton, Dickinson & Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System – Phoenix Inducible Macrolide
resistance (iMLSb) in Staphylococcus species
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1645 Fully Automated Short-Term Incubation Cycle Antimicrobial
Susceptibility System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
LON System, Test, Automated, Antimicrobial Susceptibility, Short Incubation
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is intended for the in vitro
rapid identification (ID) of gram positive bacteria from pure culture belonging to
the genera Staphylococcus, Enterococcus, other gram positive cocci and gram
positive bacilli. The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System is also
intended for the quantitative determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by
minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of most gram positive bacterial isolates
from pure culture belonging to the genera Staphylococcus and Enterococcus.
2. Indication(s) for use:
This premarket notification is for the addition of the Phoenix Inducible Macrolide
resistance (iMLSb) Test in Staphylococcus species to Gram-positive ID/AST or
AST only Phoenix panels. The Phoenix Inducible Macrolide resistance Test is
used to detect inducible macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin B resistance in
Staphylococcus species.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
Perform an alternate method when a positive result with Coagulase Negative
Staphylococcus (CNS) specifically, S. cohnii ssp cohnii, S. gallinarum, and S.
hominis and iMLSb is identified.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology System includes instrumentation and
software, sealed and self-inoculating molded polystyrene trays with 136 micro-wells
containing dried reagents, and specific inoculum broth formulations for ID and AST
indicator. The organism to be tested must be a pure culture and be preliminarily
identified as gram positive or gram negative. Colonies are then suspended in broth, and
equated to a 0.5 McFarland with the recommendation to use the BD CrystalSpec™
Nephelometer. A further dilution is made into an AST broth, which contains an AST
indicator, prior to inoculating the panel. The AST broth is a cation-adjusted formulation
2

--- Page 3 ---
of Mueller-Hinton broth containing 0.01% Tween 80. After adding the indicator solution
to the AST inoculum the color turns to blue. After inoculation and incubation, the color
changes to pink then to colorless as reduction in the panel well proceeds. Inoculated
panels are barcode scanned and loaded into the BD Phoenix™ Automated Microbiology
System instrument where the panels are continuously incubated at 35°C. The AST has a
final inoculum of 5 x 105 CFU/ml. The instrument incubates, reads and records the
results of the biochemical substrates and antimicrobial agents and interprets the reactions
to give an ID of the isolate and MIC value and category interpretation of the
antimicrobial agents. Organisms growing in the presence of a given antimicrobic agent
reduce the indicator, signaling organism growth and resistance to the antimicrobic agent.
Organisms killed or inhibited by a given antimicrobic do not cause reduction of the
indicator and therefore do not produce a color change. Additional interpretation is done
using software driven “EXPERT” System using rules derived from the CLSI
documentation.
Readings are taken every 20 minutes with an AST result available between 4-16
hours. This is only an autoread result; no manual readings are possible with this system.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Sensititre® Dtest
2. Predicate K number(s):
k073653
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Intended for the in vitro An in vitro diagnostic
rapid identification (ID) product for clinical
and quantitative susceptibility testing of
determination of gram negative and gram
antimicrobial positive organisms.
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.
Inoculum Prepared from colonies Prepared from colonies
using the direct using the direct
inoculation method inoculation method
Result Reported Report results as Report results as
minimum inhibitory minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and concentration (MIC) and
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Intended for the in vitro
rapid identification (ID)
and quantitative
determination of
antimicrobial
susceptibility by minimal
inhibitory concentration
(MIC) of most bacteria.			An in vitro diagnostic
product for clinical
susceptibility testing of
gram negative and gram
positive organisms.		
Inoculum			Prepared from colonies
using the direct
inoculation method			Prepared from colonies
using the direct
inoculation method		
Result Reported			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and			Report results as
minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) and		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
categorical interpretation categorical interpretation
(SIR) (SIR)
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Incubation Rapid (<16 hours) 18-24 hours
Reading method Automated manually or
automatically
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”; CLSI M7 (M100-S18) “Methods for Dilution
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria That Grow Aerobically; Approved
Standard.”
L. Test Principle:
The Phoenix Inducible Macrolide resistance (iMLSb) Test is used to detect inducible
macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin B (MLSb) resistance in Staphylococcus species.
MLSb resistance, usually encoded by ermA or ermC genes, may be either constitutive
(always expressed) or inducible after exposure to a macrolide antibiotic (e.g.
erythromycin, clarithromycin, etc.). The Phoenix Inducible Macrolide Resistance Test is
based on the same principle as the CLSI-recommended Disk Approximation test (D-Test)
for the detection of inducible clindamycin resistance. When the Phoenix Inducible
Macrolide Resistance Test result is positive, the categorical interpretation of clindamycin
on the same Phoenix panel will be reported as resistant and accompanied by a separate
BDXpert message. Staphylococcus isolates resistant to both erythromycin and
clindamycin on initial testing will be reported as the MLSb phenotype to distinguish them
from isolates that are resistant to macrolides alone by efflux mechanism.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility testing was performed on 10 Staphylococcus isolates.
Acceptable reproducibility was demonstrated with only category agreement
(Negative, Positive) since that is all that is detected.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			categorical interpretation
(SIR)			categorical interpretation
(SIR)		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Incubation			Rapid (<16 hours)			18-24 hours		
Reading method			Automated			manually or
automatically		

--- Page 5 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The CLSI recommended Quality Control (QC) isolates, S. aureus ATCC
BAA-976 and S. aureus ATCC BAA-977 were tested on every test occasion
with the reference method and the BD Phoenix™. The BD Phoenix™ was
tested a sufficient number of times to demonstrate that the system can produce
QC results in the recommended ranges.
Quality Control Table
Conc Reference BD
ORGANISM ug/mL Phoenix™
(Ery/Cli)
S. aureus BAA-976 Neg 63 68
Expected Range: Neg Pos 0 0
S. aureus BAA-977 Neg 2 1
Expected Range: Pos Pos 60 68
Inoculum density control: The organism suspension density of the ID
broth was equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard using the BBL™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer which was verified each day of testing.
Internal data was used to demonstrate that the use of the BBL™
CrystalSpec™ Nephelometer would produce reproducible results. Five different
instruments were used.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The CLSI recommended disk diffusion reference panel was prepared
according to the CLSI recommendation. The disk diffusion reference panel
was set up on a blood agar plate, inoculated with a direct colony suspension
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
ORGANISM	Conc
ug/mL
(Ery/Cli)	Reference	BD
Phoenix™
			
S. aureus BAA-976
Expected Range: Neg	Neg	63	68
	Pos	0	0
			
S. aureus BAA-977	Neg	2	1
Expected Range: Pos	Pos	60	68
			
			

--- Page 6 ---
and incubated in ambient air at 35°C for 16 – 18 hours as recommended by
CLSI. Clinical testing was performed on 295 Staphylococcus species at three
external sites which included fresh and stock clinical isolates, a set of
challenge organisms, and CDC study isolates.
The Phoenix Inducible Macrolide resistance (iMLSb) Test is used to detect
induction of clindamycin resistance by erythromycin. The test algorithm
compares the growth rate observed in the test well to a predetermined
threshold to determine the expression of the inducible resistance phenotype in
the test isolate.
The comparison resulted in the following performance evaluations as reflected
below. There are 3 maj errors with the CNS group, specifically S. cohnii ssp
cohnii, S. gallinarum, and S. hominis.
Summary Table
Total CA CA% # Neg # Pos maj vmj
S. aureus 214 210 98.1 94 120 1 3
S. epidermidis 39 39 100 23 16 0 0
Coagulase-negative
Staphylococcus (CNS) 42 39 92.9 21 21 3 0
CA - Category Agreement maj-major discrepancies
vmj-very major discrepancies
Category agreement (CA) is when the BD Phoenix™ panel result interpretation
agrees exactly with the reference panel result interpretation.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Total	CA	CA%	# Neg	# Pos	maj	vmj
S. aureus	214	210	98.1	94	120	1	3
S. epidermidis	39	39	100	23	16	0	0
Coagulase-negative
Staphylococcus (CNS)	42	39	92.9	21	21	3	0

--- Page 7 ---
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Staphylococcus species – Positive (inducible clindamycin resistance)
Negative (no inducible clindamycin resistance)
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7