
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k082141
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Calibrators and controls for C-peptide
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator and Control
E. Applicant:
Biokit S.A.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ARCHITECT C-Peptide Calibrators (model 3L53-01)
ARCHITECT C-Peptide Controls (model 3L53-10)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JIT (calibrator) Class II 21 CFR§ 862.1150 Clinical Chemistry
JJX (control) Class I, reserved 21 CFR§ 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Calibrators: The ARCHITECT C-Peptide Calibrators are for the calibration of
the ARCHITECT i System when used for the quantitative determination of C-
peptide in human serum, plasma and urine.
Controls: The ARCHITECT C-Peptide Controls are for the estimation of test
precision and the detection of systematic analytical deviations of the
ARCHITECT i System when used for the quantitative determination of C-peptide
in human serum, plasma and urine.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ARCHITECT i System
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JIT (calibrator)			Class II			21 CFR§ 862.1150			Clinical Chemistry		
JJX (control)			Class I, reserved			21 CFR§ 862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
The ARCHITECT C-Peptide Calibrators and Controls are designed to be used in the
ARCHITECT C-Peptide assay on the ARCHITECT i System.
Calibrators:
Calibrators A-F contain PBS buffer with heat inactivated horse serum and stabilizers.
Calibrators B-F also contain human C-peptide (synthetic). Preservatives used are
ProClin 300 and ProClin 950. Each ARCHITECT C-Peptide Calibrator kit contains 6
bottles of Calibrators (4.0 mL fill volume per bottle) with the following
concentrations:
CAL A – 0.00 ng/mL, CAL B – 0.05 ng/mL, CAL C – 0.24 ng/mL, CAL D – 1.20
ng/mL, CAL E – 6 ng/mL, CAL F – 30 ng/mL
Controls:
The controls contain human C-peptide (synthetic) in PBS buffer with heat inactivated
horse serum and stabilizers. Preservatives used are ProClin 300 and ProClin 950.
Each ARCHITECT C-Peptide Control kit contains 3 bottles of Controls (8.0 mL fill
volume per bottle) with the following concentrations:
Control Low – 1 ng/mL, Control Medium – 4 ng/mL, Control High – 16 ng/mL
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Calibrators: ADVIA Centaur and ACS:180 C-peptide Calibrator
Controls: BAYER Ligand Plus 1,2,3 Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
Calibrators: k021532
Controls: k030452
3. Comparison with predicate:
Calibrators (Similarities)
Item Device Predicate
Intended use The ARCHITECT C-Peptide For in vitro diagnostic use
Calibrators are for the calibration of in calibrating the ADVIA
the ARCHITECT i System when used Centaur or ACS:180 C-
for the quantitative determination of C- peptide assays.
peptide in human serum, plasma and
urine.
System Chemiluminescent Microparticle Two-site sandwich
Methodology Immunoassay (CMIA). immunoassay using direct
chemiluminescent
technology.
Assay Protocols Two-step immunoassay Two-site sandwich
immunoassay
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Calibrators (Similarities)			
Item		Device	Predicate	
Intended use		The ARCHITECT C-Peptide
Calibrators are for the calibration of
the ARCHITECT i System when used
for the quantitative determination of C-
peptide in human serum, plasma and
urine.	For in vitro diagnostic use
in calibrating the ADVIA
Centaur or ACS:180 C-
peptide assays.	
System
Methodology		Chemiluminescent Microparticle
Immunoassay (CMIA).	Two-site sandwich
immunoassay using direct
chemiluminescent
technology.	
Assay Protocols		Two-step immunoassay	Two-site sandwich
immunoassay	

--- Page 3 ---
Standardization The ARCHITECT C-Peptide The ADVIA Centaur C-
Calibrators are established against a set peptide assay is
of internal Reference Calibrators, standardized against World
which are traceable to the WHO Health Organization
International Reference Reagent for C- (WHO) IS 84/510.
peptide of human insulin for Assigned values of
immunoassay, code 84/510, calibrators are traceable to
established 1986, from the National this standardization.
Institute for Biological Standards and
Control (NIBSC).
Calibrators (Differences)
Item Device Predicate
Platform ARCHITECT i System Siemens Advia Centaur
Calibration 0.00 ng/mL (0 pmol/L) Low Calibrator
Range/Levels 0.05 ng/mL (17 pmol/L) High Calibrator
0.24 ng/mL (80 pmol/L)
1.20 ng/mL (400 pmol/L)
6.00 ng/mL (2000 pmol/L)
30.00 ng/mL (10000 pmol/L)
Matrix PBS buffer with heat inactivated horse Citric acid buffer with
serum and stabilizers. casein and preservatives.
Controls (Similarities)
Item Device Predicate
Intended use The ARCHITECT C-Peptide Controls For in vitro diagnostic use
are for the estimation of test precision to monitor the precision and
and the detection of systematic the accuracy of
analytical deviations of the immunochemistry test
ARCHITECT i System when used for procedures for ADVIA
the quantitative determination of C- Centaur®, ACS:180®,
peptide in human serum, plasma and ADVIA IMS and ADVIA®
urine. Chemistry Systems.
System Chemiluminescent Microparticle Two-site sandwich
Methodology Immunoassay (CMIA). immunoassay using direct
chemiluminescent
technology.
Assay Protocols Two-step immunoassay Two-site sandwich
immunoassay
Controls (Differences)
Item Device Predicate
Platform ARCHITECT i System Siemens ADVIA Centaur
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Standardization		The ARCHITECT C-Peptide
Calibrators are established against a set
of internal Reference Calibrators,
which are traceable to the WHO
International Reference Reagent for C-
peptide of human insulin for
immunoassay, code 84/510,
established 1986, from the National
Institute for Biological Standards and
Control (NIBSC).	The ADVIA Centaur C-
peptide assay is
standardized against World
Health Organization
(WHO) IS 84/510.
Assigned values of
calibrators are traceable to
this standardization.	
	Calibrators (Differences)			
Item		Device	Predicate	
Platform		ARCHITECT i System	Siemens Advia Centaur	
Calibration
Range/Levels		0.00 ng/mL (0 pmol/L)
0.05 ng/mL (17 pmol/L)
0.24 ng/mL (80 pmol/L)
1.20 ng/mL (400 pmol/L)
6.00 ng/mL (2000 pmol/L)
30.00 ng/mL (10000 pmol/L)	Low Calibrator
High Calibrator	
Matrix		PBS buffer with heat inactivated horse
serum and stabilizers.	Citric acid buffer with
casein and preservatives.	

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Controls (Similarities)			
Item		Device	Predicate	
Intended use		The ARCHITECT C-Peptide Controls
are for the estimation of test precision
and the detection of systematic
analytical deviations of the
ARCHITECT i System when used for
the quantitative determination of C-
peptide in human serum, plasma and
urine.	For in vitro diagnostic use
to monitor the precision and
the accuracy of
immunochemistry test
procedures for ADVIA
Centaur®, ACS:180®,
ADVIA IMS and ADVIA®
Chemistry Systems.	
System
Methodology		Chemiluminescent Microparticle
Immunoassay (CMIA).	Two-site sandwich
immunoassay using direct
chemiluminescent
technology.	
Assay Protocols		Two-step immunoassay	Two-site sandwich
immunoassay	
	Controls (Differences)			
Item		Device	Predicate	
Platform		ARCHITECT i System	Siemens ADVIA Centaur	

--- Page 4 ---
Control 1.00 ng/mL (333 pmol/L) Control 1
Range/Levels 4.00 ng/mL (1333 pmol/L) Control 2
16.00 ng/mL (5333 pmol/L) Control 3
Matrix PBS buffer with heat inactivated horse Prepared from Human
serum and stabilizers. serum. No preservatives or
stabilizers added.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• OIVD: Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators; Final
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
Calibrators and controls are traceable to the WHO standard NIBSC code
84/510. The WHO standards are gravimetrically diluted to the target
concentrations defined for the calibrators and controls to create reference
materials. The reference materials are then used to standardize the consumer
product.
Stability:
Freeze-thaw, open vial, and transport simulation studies were performed on
the products. The stability protocols and acceptance criteria for these studies
were reviewed and found to be acceptable. The ARCHITECT C-Peptide
Calibrators and Controls are stable for 6 months when stored at 2-8oC.
Value Assignment:
Values for the calibrators and controls are listed in section I. Calibrators and
controls are verified using Relative Light Unit (RLU) comparison between
target material and test material using the ARCHITECT i System. The
consumer products are referenced to a secondary standard which is in turn
referenced to the WHO standard mentioned above. Adjustments are
performed if necessary so that the values of new calibrators are within the
sponsor’s manufacturing criteria when compared to the reference.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Control
Range/Levels	1.00 ng/mL (333 pmol/L)
4.00 ng/mL (1333 pmol/L)
16.00 ng/mL (5333 pmol/L)	Control 1
Control 2
Control 3
Matrix	PBS buffer with heat inactivated horse
serum and stabilizers.	Prepared from Human
serum. No preservatives or
stabilizers added.

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5