
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k083729
B. Purpose for Submission:
Bundled submission for clearance of a new Factor V-Leiden (FVL) assay and its
associated calibrators and control, and modification for a currently cleared
coagulation control (k043451).
C. Measurand:
Factor V-Leiden
D. Type of Test:
Clotting Assay
E. Applicant:
ANIARA DIAGNOSTICA, LLC
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Hemoclot Quanti V-L
Factor V-L Calibrator
Biophen V-L Cal (Undiluted)
Biophen ACT PC-r Control Plasma
Biophen Normal Control
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
GGW, Test Partial Class II 21 CFR 864.7925 81 Hematology
Thrombin Time 21 CFR 864.542521
GGN, Plasma, CFR 862.1150
Coagulation Control
JIT, Calibrator,
Secondary
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
HEMOCLOT Quanti V-L is a clotting method for measuring the Factor V Leiden
(FVL) activity in human citrated plasma, by its resistance to the action of
Activated Protein C (APC).
Factor V-L Calibrator is lyophilized, pre-diluted (1:20) human plasmas, at defined
Factor V-Leiden (FV-L) concentrations, for the calibration of Factor V-L activity
quantitative clotting assay on human citrated plasma, using the HEMOCLOT
Quanti. V-L Kit (ref CK065K).
BIOPHEN V-L CAL (Undiluted) is lyophilized, undiluted human plasmas, at
defined Factor V-Leiden (FV-L) concentrations for the calibration curve of Factor
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
GGW, Test Partial
Thrombin Time
GGN, Plasma,
Coagulation Control
JIT, Calibrator,
Secondary			Class II			21 CFR 864.7925
21 CFR 864.542521
CFR 862.1150			81 Hematology		

--- Page 2 ---
V-L activity quantitative clotting assay on human citrated plasma, using
HEMOCLOT Quanti V-L Kit (ref CK065K).
BIOPHEN Act PC-r Control Plasma kit contains human plasma, presenting an
activated Protein C Resistance (APC-R), usually correlated with the genetic
mutation of Factor V R506Q. This plasma is used as quality control plasma for
the testing of Activated Protein C Resistance (APC-R).
BIOPHEN Normal Control Plasma is a set of 12 vials of normal citrated human
plasma for the quality control of some coagulation factors (ATIII, Protein C, aPC
resistance FV Leiden, Lupus Anticoagulant).
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Sigma Diagnostics KC 1A (k955724)
Sigma Diagnostics AMAX 400 (k972260)
American Bioproducts STA (k942117)
American Bioproducts STA-R (k082675)
Manual (Water Bath)
I. Device Description:
HEMOCLOT Quanti V-L is an in vitro diagnostic kit containing two reagents to
measure the Factor V Leiden concentration in citrated plasma, by its resistance to the
Activated Protein C. Reagent 1 is a clotting mixture containing human Fibrinogen,
human Prothrombin, and Protein S at a constant concentration, optimized for the
assay, and human Activated Protein C, lyophilized. It also contains a heparin
neutralizing substance. Reagent 2 is Purified Human Factor Xa, containing rabbit
brain phospholipids (cephalin), lyophilized. Calibrators and controls are required and
sold separately.
FVL Calibrator kit: 12 vials (3 sets of 4 vials) of 1 mL of prediluted human plasma
(1:20) at different concentrations of FV-L, ranging from about 10% to 100%.
Biophen V-L Cal (Undiluted) kit: 9 vials (3 sets of 3 vials) of 0.5 mL of undiluted
human plasma at different concentrations of FV-L, to cover the assay range, from
about 10% to 100%. (3 vials for each concentration, 4 points for the calibration
curve).
Act. PC-r Control Plasma kit: 12 vials of 0.5 mL of human plasma, presenting an
APC-R, citrated and lyophilized.
BIOPHEN Normal Control Plasma: 12 vials of 1 mL of normal citrated human
plasma, lyophilized.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
New Device Predicate Device
HEMOCLOT Quanti V-L, Factor COATEST APC Resistance V
V-L Calibrator, Biophen V-L (K963111). Control Plasmas
CAL (undiluted), Biophen Act Level 1 and Level 2 are
PC-r Control Plasma, Biophen included in this device kit.
Normal Control Plasma
Similarities
Intended Use Measurement of Factor V Leiden Same
activity in human citrated plasma
by its resistance to the action of
Activated Protein C.
Assay Type Clotting Method Same
Test Sample Human Citrated Plasma Same
Assay Principle Measurement of Factor V Leiden Same
coagulation activity based on
insensitivity of Factor V Leiden to
the action of Activated Protein C.
Stability of Unopened Reagents Stable at 2-8°C until expiry date Same
Controls, Normal Citrated human plasma, Same
lyophilized, to provide quality
control in the normal range. APC
V Ratio > 2.
Controls, Abnormal (APC Citrated human plasma, Same
Resistant) lyophilized, to provide quality
control for APC resistant range of
the assay. APC V Ratio < 1.80
Differences
Assay Principle Assay is performed in the Assay is performed in the
presence of Activated Protein C presence and absence of
and Protein S (one single test for Activated Protein C (two tests for
each patient). In the presence of each patient). In the presence of
APC, prolongation of clotting time APC, prolongation of clotting time
is inversely related to the amount is directly related to the
of Factor V Leiden. Normal Factor concentration of Normal Factor V,
V is not measured. APC and inversely related to the
resistance due to Factor V Leiden amount of Factor V Leiden. APC
is indicated when the %FVL value resistance due to Factor V Leiden
is above or equal to the cut-off is indicated when the APC-V ratio
value. is below or equal to the cut-off
value.
Assay Calibration Assay of calibrator plasma at Not Applicable.
defined Factor V Leiden
concentrations. Calibrator
plasmas available in prediluted
(FVL Calibrator) and undiluted
(BIOPHEN V-L Cal) form,
lyophilized.
3

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number
Other Standards
GUIDANCE
Document Title Office Division Web Page
L. Test Principle:
The Hemoclot Quanti V-L kit is a clotting method triggered by purified Factor Xa,
containing Phospholipids, and Calcium, and is performed on diluted test plasma, in
presence of Activated Protein C and Protein S. In the first step, diluted plasma is
mixed with purified clotting Factors [clotting mixture containing Prothrombin,
Fibrinogen, Protein S and Activated Protein C (APC)], in a constant and optimized
concentration. Then, the purified Factor Xa in the presence of Phospholipids (PLP) is
added. Clotting is initiated by the addition of Calcium (Ca2+). The clotting time is
then recorded. Clotting time measured is inversely proportional to the concentration
of factor V-L. There is an inverse linear relationship, on a lin-log graph paper,
between the factor V-L concentration and the corresponding clotting time.
FVL Calibrator and Biophen V-L Cal (Undiluted) are two calibrators that may be
used with the HEMOCLOT Quanti.V-L kit. Biophen V-L CAL (Undiluted) is
lyophilized undiluted human plasma containing different concentrations of FV-L, to
cover the assay range, from about 10% to 100%. FVL Calibrator is lyophilized pre-
diluted human plasma (1:20) at different concentrations of FV-L, to cover the assay
range, from about 10% to 100%.
Biophen Normal Control Plasma and Biophen Act. PC-r Control Plasma are quality
control plasmas which may be used with the kit.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Two lots of Hemoclot Quanti V-L were analyzed for inter-assay precision. In
one study the assay was performed with the waterbath, over four days using
the internal reference calibrator at 4 different concentrations (10%, 25%, 50%,
100%) of FVL. Normal Control and the Biophen APCr control were used as
controls. In another study using the waterbath, 9 vials of reagent was assayed
at the 100% FVL level by several technicians. Inter-assay precision was also
demonstrated using the KC10 analyzer by performing 10 assay runs over
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
STANDARDS
Title and Reference Number


[Table 2 on page 4]
GUIDANCE			
Document Title	Office	Division	Web Page
			

--- Page 5 ---
several days using 2 technicians. The calibration curve was run, which
represents the entire range of the assay, 10%-100% FVL.
Intra-assay precision was demonstrated on the waterbath by assaying 10
reagent vials from the same lot at the 100% FVL Level, in the single run.
All analyses yielded CV<6%.
Additional precision testing was performed at the medical decision points
(10%, 25%) on the KC10 (10 runs), STA-R (10 runs), and waterbath (5 runs).
Two samples were assayed over 3 days using 3 technicians. For each run a
reference calibration curve and Normal Control and Biophen APCr was
performed.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The linearity of the Hemoclot Quanti V-L assay was evaluated by use of FVL
Calibrator plasmas at 4 different concentrations of FVL, 10%, 25%, 50%, and
100%. The linearity of the assay was validated on the waterbath and several
commercial analyzers (KC10, STA, STAR and Amax 400). The assay is
linear between 10% and 100% FVL, r2>0.98. The linearity of the assay below
10% is not determined. Any value below 10% is considered normal. Values
between 25% and 75% are expected for heterozygous plasmas. Values >75%
are expected for homozygous plasmas. Values between 10 -25% are
considered inconclusive.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Internal Reference Standard used for assigning values to the calibrators
and controls is traceable to pooled normal and APCr human plasmas,
controlled for normal Factor V content against commercially available
reference plasma pools, and verified against an NIBSC standard for normal
Factor V (SSC/ISTH Secondary Coagulation Standard).
The calibration curve for the Hemoclot Quanti V-L kit is established with
either Biophen V-L cal (undiluted) or Factor V-L Calibrator kits. By
definition, normal plasma contains 0% FVL and heterozygous plasma, from
patients carrying the R506Q mutation, contains 50% FVL. For the Biophen V-
L cal (undiluted) kit, calibrators are made from mixtures of pooled
heterozygous plasmas and pooled normal plasmas to yield calibration plasmas
at concentrations of 10%, 25% and 50%. For the Factor V-L Calibrator kit,
calibrators are made from mixtures of pooled heterozygous plasmas and
pooled normal plasmas and diluted appropriately to yield calibration plasmas
at concentrations of 10%, 25%, 50% and 100% FVL, ready to use with the
Hemoclot Quanti V-L kit. The concentration of each calibrator level is
accurately defined, against an internal reference standard, as the mean value
from at least 10 vials tested in the same series by manual and/or automated
methods, using the Hemoclot Quanti V-L Assay.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Biophen Act. PC-r Control Plasma and Biophen Normal Control Plasma
(510k #043451) may be used for quality control with the Hemoclot Quanti V-
L kit. Biophen Act PC-r Control Plasma is derived from pooled heterozygous
plasma, from patients carrying the R506Q mutation, and contains about 50%
FVL. Biophen Normal Control Plasma is derived from pooled normal plasmas
and contains about 0% FVL. The FVL concentration of each control is
accurately defined, against an internal reference standard, as the mean value
of at least 3 vials tested in at least 3 independent series (i.e., at least 9 vials
tested) by manual and/or automated methods, using the Hemoclot Quanti V-L
Assay.
Stability: Reconstituted reagents are stable for 24 hrs at 2-8º C or 8 hrs at
room temperature (18-25ºC). Overheating studies support 30 month expiration
dating for lyophilized reagents stored at 2-8ºC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
The specificity of the assay was demonstrated by analyzing factor deficient
plasmas. Results from Factor deficient plasmas (V, X, II, PS, PC) showed no
interference. Since the assay can be performed in patients with heparin
therapy (up to 1 IU/mL), plasma samples spiked with heparin were tested and
showed no significant interference as the result of a heparin neutralizing
substance in Reagent 1. To determine whether the assay can be performed in
patients with Anti-Vitamin K (AVK) therapy, plasma samples from APCr
patients with AVK therapy were tested and yielded expected values.
f. Assay cut-off:
The normal cut-off range was determined and validated by analyzing normal
patient plasmas and aPCr patient plasmas, carrying R506Q mutation (FVL)
identified with molecular technology as Heterozygous (HTZ) or Homozygous
(HMZ). Analyses were conducted on water bath, KC10 and STAR analyzers.
Normal plasma is expected to measure <10%FVL. Plasmas from patients with
Factor V Leiden are expected to measure between 25% and 75% FVL
(heterozygous) or >75% (homozygous).
Using the Hemoclot Quanti V-L method, the normal plasma range was
determined by analyzing 20 normal plasma samples from a French blood bank
on three different instruments with normal and APCr Controls and a selection
of ActPCr plasma samples. To verify the cut-off, 42 plasma samples from
FVL/HTZ patients out of therapy, 20 plasma samples from FVL/HTZ patients
under Anti Vitamin K (AVK) therapy and 18 plasma samples from FVL/HMZ
patients were analyzed. Results were acceptable with normal samples
measuring <10% FVL, 25% and 75% FVL for FVL/HTZ and >75% FVL for
FVL/HMZ samples.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A four site (two in the US and two in Europe) comparison study was
6

--- Page 7 ---
conducted. 189 plasma samples were analyzed using the test (Hemoclot
Quanti V-L) and predicate (Coatest APCr) method. Samples were selected
from patients who were previously tested for coagulation disorders and
represented both normal and APC-Resistant populations (about 60% of the
samples were from normal patients and 40% from APCr patients). Patient
plasma samples were selected to cover the range of the assay. Overall, there
was 94% agreement between the two methods for determining APC resistance
due to the Factor V Leiden mutation. In one study, samples were identified as
heterozygous (25), homozygous (11), or normal (27) with regard to FVL
mutation using molecular biology methods. There was 97% agreement
between the results of test method and the molecular biology diagnosis with
regard to APCr resistance.
All Sites Predicate
Normal Abnormal
Hemoclot Quanti V-L Normal 108 7
Abnormal 1 70
Inconclusive* 2 1
*Outside the range of the Hemoclot Quanti V-L
Percent Total Agreement 94.18% (178/189)
Percent Positive Agreement 89.74% (70/78)
Percent Negative Agreement 97.30% (108/111)
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Normal plasma is expected to measure <10%FVL. Plasmas from patients with
Factor V Leiden are expected to measure between 25% and 75% FVL
(heterozygous) or >75% (homozygous).
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
All Sites		Predicate	
		Normal	Abnormal
Hemoclot Quanti V-L	Normal	108	7
	Abnormal	1	70
	Inconclusive*	2	1