
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K083200
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
White Blood Cells (WBC-C) Count, White Blood Cells Differential(WBC-D), Red
Blood Cells (RBC), Nucleated Red Blood Cells (NRBC), Hemoglobin (Hgb),
Hematocrit (Hct), Platelets (Plt)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Streck, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
X-Cal™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8150
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KRX
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
X-Cal™ is used to calibrate and verify calibration of Sysmex hematology
analyzers. Refer to product assay sheet.
2. Indication(s) for use:
X-Cal™ is used to calibrate and verify calibration of Sysmex hematology
analyzers. Refer to product assay sheet.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not applicable.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use on the Sysmex hematology analyzers.
I. Device Description:
X-Cal™ is a stabilized suspension of human and animal blood, in a solution
containing biological salts and anti-microbial preservatives. The product is
packaged in plastic vials containing 4.6 ml. The closures are polypropylene screw
caps with polyethylene liners. The vials are packaged in a five (5) welled vacuum
formed “clam-shell” container and must be stored at 2-8o C.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Cal-Chex
2. Predicate K number(s):
K840261
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item X-Cal™ Cal-Chex
Intended use Used to calibrate Sysmex Same
hematology analyzers.
Parameters WBC, RBC, nRBC, Hgb, Same
Hct, Plt
Reagents Stabilized Human and Same
Animal Blood
Differences
Item X-Cal™ Cal-Chex
Open vial stability 24 hours 5 days
Closed vial stability 34 days 45 days
Storage temperature 2 – 8o C 2 – 10o C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
H38-P, Calibration and Quality Control of Automated Hematology Analyzers, April
1999, CLSI
L. Test Principle:
X-Cal™ is a calibrator assigned model-specific assay target values for primary
hematology parameters that are traceable to reference methods. The product is for
calibration or calibration verification of the Open/Manual sampling mode of the
Sysmex® analyzers listed on the Assay Sheet. Changes made in the Open mode
calibration will be proportionally reflected in Closed and Capillary mode values. X-
Cal™ is for in-vitro diagnostic use only by laboratory professionals or appropriately
trained personnel.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility studies were performed on three different Sysmex® analyzers
(XS-1000, XE-2100, XT-2000) using three lots of one level of X-Cal™. Each
value was calculated from 10 consecutive analyses performed on a single vial.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item	X-Cal™		Cal-Chex	
				
Intended use	Used to calibrate Sysmex
hematology analyzers.	Same		
Parameters	WBC, RBC, nRBC, Hgb,
Hct, Plt	Same		
Reagents	Stabilized Human and
Animal Blood	Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences					
Item		X-Cal™		Cal-Chex	
					
Open vial stability	24 hours			5 days	
Closed vial stability	34 days			45 days	
Storage temperature	2 – 8o C			2 – 10o C	

--- Page 4 ---
A whole blood study on three lots of X-Cal™ was performed by analyzing
two whole blood samples 10 times each on the Sysmex XS-1000, XE-2100
and XT-2000 analyzers.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: X-Cal™ values are assigned based on instrument specific
requirements. Replicate analyses on multiple vials are performed on the
analyzer application (Sysmex analyzers). Assay analysis is performed using
two vials, testing each vial a minimum of five times. This ten-run
reproducibility event is analyzed to assure that the mean values and CV%
meet instrument specific requirements. Sysmex® performs similar analyses
using multiple vials and replicate runs, and enters all the data into a database
program which confirms that the data supplied by each laboratory meets
system requirements. Final assay assignment values are determined using data
collection, parity comparison and established product performance
characteristics.
Open vial stability: The three lots were set up to verify performance
throughout a 6 day vial dating, but only claims a 24 hour open vial dating.
Each lot was run on the three hematology analyzers on specified days during
the six day period (at least 4 runs per 6 day period). Each vial was returned to
refrigerated temperature (2-8oC) between analysis periods. All lots performed
as expected, with parameter recovery within the established assay ranges.
Closed vial stability: Three lots were set up to verify performance throughout
the 34 day expiration date at refrigerated temperature (2-8oC). Each lot
number was run at least one time each week for 34 days. No significant trends
occurred and there was consistent recovery of values within the indicated
assay range.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The user is directed to refer to the product assay sheet accompanying the product
insert. Expected range values assigned to the assay represent variation between
analyzers and established product performance characteristics.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5