
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083339
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) to support the integration of Dimension RxL Max Chemistry system with
sample transfer module (k043546) to the ADVIA Modular Automation System using
the Calcium Assay (k860021) to show acceptable performance
C. Measurand:
Calcium
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative photometric assay
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension® RxL Max® Clinical Chemistry System with Sample Transfer Module
and the ADVIA® Modular Automation System (LabCell®/WorkCell) with Calcium
Reagents
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec. 862.1145 Calcium test system
21CFR Sec. 862.2160 Discrete photometric chemistry analyzer for clinical use
2. Classification:
Class II and I
3. Product code:
CIC – cresolphthalein complexone, calcium
JJE - Analyzer, Chemistry (Photometric, Discrete), For Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Dimension® RxL Max® Clinical Chemistry System with Sample Transfer
Module and the ADVIA® Modular Automation System is a discrete random
access, microprocessor-controlled, integrated instrument/chemistry system that
measures a variety of analytes, including enzyme activities in body fluids. The

--- Page 2 ---
system menu will include assays, such as Calcium, along with other various
assays that may be adaptable to the analyzer depending on the reagent used.
Calcium is intended to quantitatively measure Calcium in human serum or
plasma. Calcium measurements are used in the diagnosis and treatment of
parathyroid disease, a variety of bone diseases, chronic renal disease and tetany.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension® RxL Max® Clinical Chemistry System with Sample Transfer
Module and the ADVIA® Modular Automation System (LabCell®/WorkCell)
I. Device Description:
The Dimension® RxL Max® Chemistry System is a continuous operation chemistry
analyzer designed to perform in vitro diagnostic testing on clinical specimens.
The ADVIA® Modular Automation System (AMAS) is a laboratory automation
system (LAS) designed to automate sample handling and processing in the clinical
laboratory. AMAS is available as two products, the ADVIA® LabCell® and
ADVIA® WorkCell. These LAS systems are made up of the same components and
are controlled by common software. The systems differ in their expansion
capabilities:
ADVIA® WorkCell is an ADVIA® Automation solution that is limited to three
fixed configurations supporting up to a total of five interface stations. ADVIA®
LabCell® is customizable ADVIA® Automation solution that is configurable with up
to 16 interface stations.
Dimension® RxL Max® Chemistry System (Dimension) with Sample Transfer
Module and the ADVIA® Modular Automation System combines the features of
both the analyzer and the laboratory automation system.
The ADVIA® Modular Automation System (AMAS) routes samples to the
Dimension analyzer based on test request information received from the Laboratory
Information System (LIS) and the test map established for the Dimension analyzer.
AMAS and Dimension communicate sample and analyzer status via Dimension’s
Laboratory Automation System (LAS) interface. Via its Laboratory Information
System (LIS) interface, the Dimension analyzer interfaces separately with the
hospital’s LIS to receive its test instructions (test requests) and to report results for
each sample. Dimension’s test instructions and test results for each sample are not
processed through the AMAS.
AMAS performs the following pre and post-analytical functions.
• Sample bar code identification (previously performed by the Dimension)
• Sample transport and tracking (pre-Analytical)
• Sample centrifugation (optional functionality)
2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---
• Sample de-capping (optional functionality)
• Sample transport and tracking (post-Analytical)
The Dimension continues to perform the following functions, when connected to
AMAS.
• All functions except reading the sample tube bar code. When Dimension is
connected to AMAS, samples can be loaded directly onto Dimension and/or
loaded onto AMAS and routed to Dimension. For samples loaded onto the
AMAS, which reads the sample tube bar code (sample identification) and passes
it electronically to Dimension via the LAS interface.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
DIMENSION® XL Clinical Chemistry System
StreamLAB Laboratory Automation System (LAS) and Sample Transfer Module
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k944093, k043546, k860021
3. Comparison with predicate:
Proposed device:
Predicate device: Dimension® RxL Max® with
Feature
Dimension® RxL Max® ADVIA® Modular Automation
System (AMAS)
Intended Use The Dimension® RxL Max® The Dimension® RxL Max® clinical
clinical chemistry system is a chemistry system with automation
discrete, random access, system is a discrete, random-access,
microprocessor-controlled, microprocessor-controlled, integrated
integrated instrument/chemistry instrument / chemistry system that
system that measures a variety of measures a variety of analytes,
analytes, including enzyme including enzyme activities in body
activities in body fluids. It can fluids. It can also process high-
also process high sensitivity sensitivity chromium-based
chromium-based heterogeneous heterogeneous immunoassays with
immunoassays with its HM its HM Module.
Module.
Methodology Analyzer, chemistry (photometric, Analyzer, chemistry (photometric,
discrete), for clinical use has been discrete), for clinical use has been
classified as Class I, JJE by the classified as Class I, JJE by the
Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Clinical Chemistry and Clinical
Toxicology Devices Panel, (21 Toxicology Devices Panel, (21 CFR
CFR 862.2160). No performance 862.2160). No performance standards
standards have been established have been established under Section
under Section 514 of the 514 of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Act.
Load directly onto the Dimension
Sample Loading Load directly onto the Dimension
and/or load onto AMAS
3 of 7

[Table 1 on page 3]
Feature	Predicate device:
Dimension® RxL Max®		Proposed device:	
			Dimension® RxL Max® with	
			ADVIA® Modular Automation	
			System (AMAS)	
Intended Use The Dimension® RxL Max® The Dimension® RxL Max® clinical
clinical chemistry system is a chemistry system with automation
discrete, random access, system is a discrete, random-access,
microprocessor-controlled, microprocessor-controlled, integrated
integrated instrument/chemistry instrument / chemistry system that
system that measures a variety of measures a variety of analytes,
analytes, including enzyme including enzyme activities in body
activities in body fluids. It can fluids. It can also process high-
also process high sensitivity sensitivity chromium-based
chromium-based heterogeneous heterogeneous immunoassays with
immunoassays with its HM its HM Module.
Module.
Methodology Analyzer, chemistry (photometric, Analyzer, chemistry (photometric,
discrete), for clinical use has been discrete), for clinical use has been
classified as Class I, JJE by the classified as Class I, JJE by the
Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Clinical Chemistry and Clinical
Toxicology Devices Panel, (21 Toxicology Devices Panel, (21 CFR
CFR 862.2160). No performance 862.2160). No performance standards
standards have been established have been established under Section
under Section 514 of the 514 of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Act.
Load directly onto the Dimension
Sample Loading Load directly onto the Dimension
and/or load onto AMAS				

[Table 2 on page 3]
Predicate device:
Dimension® RxL Max®

--- Page 4 ---
Sample Types Serum, Plasma, Cerebral Spinal Serum, Plasma, Cerebral Spinal Fluid,
Fluid, Urine and Whole Blood and Urine
Manually centrifuged samples or
automatically centrifuged samples by
Serum & Plasma Manually centrifuged samples
AMAS.
Sample
Manually de-capped sample tubes or
Preparation Manually de-capped sample tubes
automatically de-capped tubes by
AMAS
Tube bar code (identification) is read
by the Dimension (when tubes are
Sample placed directly on the Dimension); or
Tube bar code (identification) is
Identification of tube bar code read by AMAS and
read by the Dimension
Bar-coded Tubes communicated electronically to the
Dimension (when tubes are loaded
onto AMAS).
Test Orders Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Test Results Unidirectional communication with external LIS
Dimension’s software communicates with Lab Automation System via
Laboratory
AMAS interface. Dimension performs direct sampling from tube on the
Automation
track.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
The calcium measurement on the Dimension System is done photometrically.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of RxL Dimension with AMAS was evaluated by analyzing
three levels of a quality control product for calcium in replicates of five per
day over five (5) days on the Dimension® RxL Max® with and without ADVIA®
Modular Automation System (AMAS). The data were analyzed using Analysis of
Variance (ANOVA). A p-value less than 0.05 indicates that the difference
between the instrument with and without the AMAS attached is statistically
significant. The results are similar to the cleared claims. The table below
represents the percent coefficient of variation (CV) for samples run within and
between days.
S.D. (%CV)
LEVEL n Mean With-in run Between Total
(mg/dL) (mg/dL) day (mg/dL)
(mg/dL)
1 25 5.71 0.07 (1.2) 0.03 (0.6) 0.08
(1.4)
4 of 7

[Table 1 on page 4]
			S.D. (%CV)		
LEVEL	n	Mean
(mg/dL)	With-in run
(mg/dL)	Between
day
(mg/dL)	Total
(mg/dL)
1	25	5.71	0.07 (1.2)	0.03 (0.6)	0.08
(1.4)

--- Page 5 ---
2 25 9.92 0.06 (0.6) 0.05 (0.5) 0.08
(0.8)
3 25 13.21 0.09 (0.7) 0.04 (0.3) 0.1
(0.7)
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Provided in k860021
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Provided in k860021
d. Detection limit:
Provided in k860021
e. Analytical specificity:
Provided in k860021
f. Assay cut-off:
Provided in k860021
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Split-sample method comparison studies measuring calcium were conducted using
the Dimension® RxL Max® with (the proposed device) and without (predicate
device) ADVIA® Modular Automation System (AMAS). The data were analyzed
by linear regression and the results are summarized in the table below.
Slope Intercept r Sy,x n Range
1.05 -0.4 0.989 0.3 98 5.1 – 13.4 mg/dL
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5 of 7

[Table 1 on page 5]
2	25	9.92	0.06 (0.6)	0.05 (0.5)	0.08
(0.8)
3	25	13.21	0.09 (0.7)	0.04 (0.3)	0.1
(0.7)

[Table 2 on page 5]
Slope	Intercept	r	Sy,x	n	Range
1.05 -0.4 0.989 0.3 98 5.1 – 13.4 mg/dL					

--- Page 6 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Provided in k860021
N. Instrument Name:
Dimension® RxL Max® with ADVIA® Modular Automation System (AMAS)
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The Dimension® RxL Max Chemistry system is a continuous operation chemistry
analyzer designed to perform in vitro diagnostic testing on clinical specimens.
Pre-analytical and Post-analytical activity is performed by ADVIA® Modular
Automation System (AMAS).
Dimension and AMAS communicates via Lab Automation System interface using
its software. Dimension’s sample transfer module performs direct sampling from
tube on the AMAS track.
The Dimension RxL Max with AMAS combines the features of both the analyzer
and the laboratory automation system.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ____X___ or No ________
The applicant provided software documentation that supports the device was
designed and developed under good software LifeCycle processes.
3. Specimen Identification:
Sample tube bar code (identification) is read by the Dimension RxL (when tubes
are placed directly on the Dimension RxL); or sample tube bar code read by
AMAS and communicated electronically to the Dimension RxL (when tubes are
loaded onto AMAS).
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Load directly onto the Dimension RxL and/or load onto the AMAS, Manually
centrifuged samples or automatically centrifuged samples by the AMAS,
manually decapped sample tubes or automatically decapped tubes by AMAS.
6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
5. Calibration:
Provided in k0944093, k043546
6. Quality Control:
Provided in k860021, k944093, k043546
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7 of 7