
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083744
B. Purpose for Submission:
510(k) clearance for a Positive Control for a previously cleared assay
C. Measurand:
Recombinant Plasmodium antigens
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative, in vitro immunochromatographic assay
E. Applicant:
Binax, Inc., d/b/a Inverness Medical
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Binax NOW® Malaria Positive Control
G. Regulatory Information:
a) Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660
Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
b) Classification:
Class I
c) Product Code:
MJZ
d) Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control is intended for use as an assayed
positive external quality control with the qualitative BinaxNOW® Malaria
Test. It is designed for routine use to aid in verifying proper performance of
the procedure and the antigen detection reagents of the BinaxNOW® Malaria.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
2. Indications for use:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control can be used as a quality control
sample representative of a positive test result and to verify proper performance
of the procedure and reagents of the BinaxNOW® Malaria Test.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
The device is for prescription use only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
NA
I. Device Description:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control is a recombinant antigen control
containing a mixture of HRP II (histidine-rich protein II), which is specific for
Plasmodium falciparum (P.f.), and a pan-malarial protein. The source of the
cloned nucleic acid regions was Plasmodium falciparum DNA.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control is an accessory to the BinaxNOW®
Malaria Test.
Predicate Device: Bio-Rad Laboratories Cryptrol
510(k) Number: Exempt Device
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
L. Test Principle:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control is intended to be used as a qualitative
positive control sample in accordance with the BinaxNOW® Malaria Test product
instructions. The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control is supplied lyophilized
and is reconstituted using deionized water. The reconstituted control is then added
to a pool of presumed negative EDTA human whole blood for use in the
BinaxNOW® Malaria Test. When run on the BinaxNOW® Malaria Test, the
positive control should always generate positive results on both the P.f. specific
(HRP II) test line and on the pan malarial test line. This demonstrates that the test
reagents are working as expected and that the operator performed the test
procedure correctly.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A study was conducted at three sites to evaluate the inter-site and intra-site
performance of two different lots of BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control.

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
There was 100% agreement (36/36) agreement with the expected results, with
no differences between lots, days, operators or sites.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The sponsor studies support the stability of lyophilized control as well as the
reconstituted lyophilized vial when stored at 2-8ºC for six months..
d. Detection limit:
N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
N/A
f. Assay cut-off:
N/A
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
N/A
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
N/A - Quality Control Material
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
b. Clinical specificity:
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
Positive Control Result:
The BinaxNOW® Malaria Positive Control should generate a positive result when
used as directed (the Control (C) Line and both the T1 and the T2 lines must be
visible in the result window of the BinaxNOW® Malaria test). Note that the
appearance of any Test Line, even when very faint, indicates a positive result.
Negative Control Result:
The negative control pool should generate a negative result when used as directed
(only the Control (C) Line is visible in the result window).
N. Proposed Labeling
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirement of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.