
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083462
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator material for lactate dehydrogenase
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable.
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista® System Enzyme 5 Calibrator (ENZ 5 CAL)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1150 Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT, Calibrator, Secondary
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The ENZ 5 CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the lactate
dehydrogenase (LDI) method on the Dimension Vista System.
®
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use section above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista® System
1

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
ENZ 5 CAL is a liquid, bovine serum albumin-based product containing lactate
dehydrogenase from chicken heart. The calibrator consists of one level (Calibrator
A), and comes packaged with three vials at 1.5 mL per vial. System water (the zero
level calibrator) does not come packaged with the calibrator. The calibrator contains
preservatives and stabilizers.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® clinical system Enzyme I Calibrator
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k081789
Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Proposed Device Predicate Device
Analyte Lactate dehydrogenase. same
Intended use For the calibration of the lactate For the calibration of the lactate
dehydrogenase (LDI) method on dehydrogenase (LDI) method on
the Dimension Vista® System. the Dimension® clinical chemistry
system.
Matrix Liquid bovine serum albumin base same
with lactate dehydrogenase of
chicken liver origin.
Form Liquid same
Traceability IFCC LD at 37 ° C primary same
reference method.
Differences
Item Proposed Device Predicate Device
Packaging One Level – Calibrator A Two Levels – Level 2 and Level 3
Calibration Two Levels: Three Levels:
Levels System water is Level 1 Purified Water Diluent or reagent
Calibrator A is Level 2 grade water is Level 1
Level 2 Calibrator
Level 3 Calibrator
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance:
(cid:121) Guidance for Industry – Abbreviated 510 (k) Submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators; February 22, 1999
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Proposed Device			Predicate Device	
Analyte			Lactate dehydrogenase.			same		
Intended use			For the calibration of the lactate
dehydrogenase (LDI) method on
the Dimension Vista® System.			For the calibration of the lactate
dehydrogenase (LDI) method on
the Dimension® clinical chemistry
system.		
Matrix			Liquid bovine serum albumin base
with lactate dehydrogenase of
chicken liver origin.			same		
Form			Liquid			same		
Traceability			IFCC LD at 37 ° C primary
reference method.			same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Proposed Device			Predicate Device	
Packaging			One Level – Calibrator A			Two Levels – Level 2 and Level 3		
Calibration
Levels			Two Levels:
System water is Level 1
Calibrator A is Level 2			Three Levels:
Purified Water Diluent or reagent
grade water is Level 1
Level 2 Calibrator
Level 3 Calibrator		

--- Page 3 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: The calibrator is traceable to the IFCC lactate dehydrogenase
(LD) Reference Measurement Procedure
Value Assignment: The expected value of the commercial calibrator,
Calibrator A, is assigned by measuring the recovery of the calibrator using
three instruments (Dimension Vista System) and three lactate dehydrogenase
®
method (LDI) reagent lots. A previously assigned commercial lot is used as
the control for the assignment for the new commercial lot.
Stability: Target shelf life for the Dimension Vista® ENZ 5 CAL is 12
months at 2-8°C. Shelf life is determined by comparing results of the product
stored at 2-8º C with the control material stored at -20 º C and -70 º C. Shelf
life is also tested following three freeze-thaw cycles and three different stress
testing routines. Real time and freeze-thaw stability testing is on-going.
The open vial stability for the Dimension Vista® ENZ 5 CAL is 30 days at 2-
8°C. The punctured vial stability of the Dimension Vista® ENZ 5 CAL is 7
days at 2-8°C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4