
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083579
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Creatine Kinase, Creatine Kinase MB fraction
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista® Enzyme 6 Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II (calibrator)
3. Product code:
JIX, Calibrator, Multi-Analyte Mixture
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ENZ 6 CAL is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
Creatine Kinase (CKI) and Creatine Kinase MB (MBI) methods on the
Dimension Vista® System.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with the Siemens Dimension Vista® System
I. Device Description:
The Dimension Vista® System Enzyme 6 Calibrator (Enz 6 CAL) is a liquid, multi-
analyte, human serum albumin based product containing creatine kinase MM (human
source) and creatine kinase MB (porcine source). The kit consists of three vials of
Calibrator A, 2.0 ml per vial.
Contains human source material. Each donor unit used in the preparation of this
product was tested by FDA-approved methods for the presence of antibodies to
Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) and Type 2 (HIV-2), as well as for
Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBSAg) and antibody to Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and
found to be negative (not repeatedly reactive). Because no testing can offer complete
assurance that these or other infectious agents are absent, this material should be
handled using good laboratory practice to avoid skin contact and ingestion.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension® CKI/MBI Calibrator
2. Predicate K number(s):
k081731
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Creatine kinase (human Creatine kinase (human
source) and creatine source) and creatine
kinase-MB (porcine kinase-MB (porcine
source) source)
Matrix Human serum albumin Human serum albumin
Form Liquid Liquid
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The ENZ 6 CAL is an in The CKI/MBI CAL is an
vitro diagnostic product in vitro diagnostic
for the calibration of the product for the
Creatine Kinase (CKI*) calibration of the
and Creatine Kinase MB Creatine Kinase (CKI)
(MBI*) methods on the and Creatine Kinase MB
Dimension Vista® (MBI) methods on the
System. Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.
Levels CKI – One level CKI - Two levels
MBI – One level MBI – Two levels
* CKI and MBI are the sponsor’s nomenclature to indicate that the devices are
traceable to IFCC Reference material. See section M.1.c.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro
Diagnostic Calibrators; Final
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte			Creatine kinase (human
source) and creatine
kinase-MB (porcine
source)			Creatine kinase (human
source) and creatine
kinase-MB (porcine
source)		
Matrix			Human serum albumin			Human serum albumin		
Form			Liquid			Liquid		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The ENZ 6 CAL is an in
vitro diagnostic product
for the calibration of the
Creatine Kinase (CKI*)
and Creatine Kinase MB
(MBI*) methods on the
Dimension Vista®
System.			The CKI/MBI CAL is an
in vitro diagnostic
product for the
calibration of the
Creatine Kinase (CKI)
and Creatine Kinase MB
(MBI) methods on the
Dimension® clinical
chemistry system.		
Levels			CKI – One level
MBI – One level			CKI - Two levels
MBI – Two levels		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Dimension Vista® Enzyme 6 Calibrator is a one level calibrator
containing CK (CKMM) and CKMB. The zero level calibrator is deionized
water which is provided by the user. Both CKI and MBI are traceable to
IFCC Reference methods or materials.
Traceability:
The sponsor prepares an Anchorpool by combining normal and high levels of
Creatine Kinase from human serum. The value for this pool is assigned by
analyzing it using the IFCC Reference Method.
Masterpools for CK or CKMB are created using gravimetrically prepared CK
or CKMB stock solutions added to the sponsor’s base material to establish
prespecified concentrations of the analytes. Value assignments for the CKI
Masterpools are determined using the IFCC Reference Method and verified
against the Anchorpool using multiple Dimension instruments, testing 45
replicates. CKMB Masterpool values are assigned from IFCC reference
standard ERM AD455/IFCC calibration curves using multiple instruments,
testing multiple replicates.
CKI and CKMB antigens are added gravimetrically to the stock base at
appropriate amounts to the target calibrator levels. Final bottle values are
assigned against Masterpools using multiple instruments and reagent lots.
Stability: The shelf life, open and punctured vial stabilities of the CKI MBI
calibrator have been demonstrated using real time data. The predetermined
acceptance criteria and protocols were reviewed and found to be acceptable. The
CKI/MBI calibrator has a target shelf life of 12 months when stored at -20ºC. The
calibrator must be thawed at room temperature before use. Once the cap is
removed, or punctured, the assigned values are stable for 7 days when recapped
immediately and stored at 2-8 ºC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5