
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K083464
B. Purpose for Submission:
To determine substantial equivalence for the Premier™ CAMPY Enzyme
Immunoassay (EIA) used to detect Campylobacter (C. jejuni and C. coli) antigens
C. Measurand:
Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli antigens
D. Type of Test:
Enzyme Immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Meridian Bioscience, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Premier™ CAMPY Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 866.3110, Campylobacter spp
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
LQP - Campylobacter spp.
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
Premier™ CAMPY enzyme immunoassay (EIA) is an in vitro qualitative
procedure for the detection of specific Campylobacter antigens in stool samples
from patients with signs and symptoms of gastroenteritis. Premier CAMPY
detects C. jejuni and C. coli in human stool that may be either unpreserved or
preserved in Cary Blair-based transport media. Test results are to be used in
conjunction with information obtained from the patient's clinical evaluation and
other diagnostic procedures.
Premier CAMPY is intended for use in hospital, reference or state laboratory
settings. The device is not intended for point-of-care use.
2. Indications for use:
Premier™ CAMPY enzyme immunoassay (EIA) is an in vitro qualitative
procedure for the detection of specific Campylobacter antigens in stool samples
from patients with signs and symptoms of gastroenteritis. Premier CAMPY
detects C. jejuni and C. coli in human stool that may be either unpreserved or
preserved in Cary Blair-based transport media. Test results are to be used in
conjunction with information obtained from the patient's clinical evaluation and
other diagnostic procedures.
Premier CAMPY is intended for use in hospital, reference or state laboratory
settings. The device is not intended for point-of-care use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
Premier CAMPY is an in vitro diagnostic, microwell-based, enzyme-linked
immunoassay for the detection of common antigens found on Campylobacter jejuni
and C. coli in stool samples from patients with signs and symptoms of
Campylobacteriosis.
2

--- Page 3 ---
The assay kit contains the following components:
1. Premier CAMPY Microwells: Monoclonal antibody–coated microwells. The
antibodies are specific to C. jejuni and C. coli
2. Premier CAMPY Enzyme Conjugate: HRP-conjugated monoclonal antibodies
specific to C. jejuni and C. coli in a buffered protein solution containing 0.1%
ProClin® and 0.03% gentamicin as preservatives
3. Premier 20X Wash Buffer III: Concentrated wash buffer containing 0.1%
ProClin® and 0.3% gentamicin as preservatives
4. Premier Substrate I: Buffered solution containing urea peroxide and
tetramethylbenzidine at pH 5.0
5. Premier Stop Solution I: 1M Phosphoric acid
6. Premier CAMPY Sample Diluent/Negative Control: Buffered protein solution
containing 0.1% ProClin® and 0.03% gentamicin as preservatives.
7. Premier CAMPY Positive Control: Inactivated C. jejuni in a buffered protein
solution containing 0.094% sodium azide and 0.03% gentamicin as
preservatives
8. Transfer pipettes
9. Microwell strip holder
10. Microwell plate sealers
No calibrators are used with this device.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ProSpecT Campylobacter EIA
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K982315
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences
4

--- Page 5 ---
Differences include Specific Detection of C. coli and Antibody Source.
The Premier™ CAMPY EIA kit can specifically detect C. coli and includes anti-mouse
monoclonal antibodies, while the predicate (K982315- ProSpecT Campylobacter EIA)
cannot distinguish between C. coli and C. jejuni and contains anti-rabbit polyclonal
antibodies.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced:
EPI2-A2, Vol. 28, No. 3. User protocol for evaluation of qualitative test
performance, approved guideline. 2nd ed., CLSI (Section 8.3.1)
L. Test Principle:
Premier CAMPY is an enzyme immunoassay for the direct detection of
Campylobacter antigens in human stool samples. Breakaway microwells are coated
with Campylobacter-specific monoclonal antibodies. Diluted patient specimen is
added to the microwells and incubated. Upon completion of the incubation, a wash
step is performed to remove unbound material and a Horseradish Peroxidase (HRP)–
Anti–Campylobacter conjugate is added to the washed microwells. If Campylobacter
antigens are present, an antibody-enzyme complex is formed. A second wash step is
performed to remove unbound materials and a chromogen substrate is added to the
microwells. A blue color develops in the presence of bound enzyme. Premier Stop
5

--- Page 6 ---
Solution I is added, changing the initial blue reaction to yellow. Test results are
interpreted visually or spectrophotometrically.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Assay precision, intra-assay variability and inter-assay variability were assessed
with a reference panel prepared from moderate positive (n =2), negative (n =2),
high negative (n =3) and low positive (n = 3) samples. High negative, low
positive and moderate positive samples were prepared by inoculating negative
stool matrix with known quantities of C. jejuni. In the case of low positive and
high negative samples, the inoculum was added at concentrations that were at, or
just below, the assay LoD. Aliquots of each panel were tested for five days, twice
each day at three different test sites (Sites A, B and C). At least two technologists
performed testing at each site. The expected results were obtained 100% of the
time.
The sponsor’s pre-determined acceptance criteria were as follows:
• Premier™ Campylobacter and culture will result in performance values of
90% sensitive and 90% specific ± 10%, at 90% confidence
• Fewer than 10% false positive results
• Fewer than 10% false negative
b. Linearity/Assay Reportable Range
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (controls, calibrators or methods)
Stability
To validate labeling claims regarding the use of preserved and/or frozen samples, the
investigator subjected a panel of specimens, preserved in Cary Blair-based transport
media, to two freeze-thaw cycles (at -200C and 2-80C). The sample panel included low
positive and high negative samples prepared by spiking negative matrices with C. jejuni.
The sponsor’s interpretation of results for Premier CAMPY at OD was as follows:
450/630
Negative < 0.100
Positive ≥ 0.100
6

--- Page 7 ---
These results suggest that stool samples are stable whether preserved or frozen; thus,
effectiveness of C. jejuni and C. coli detection in such samples is not compromised.
Human stool samples, unpreserved: Samples should be received in an airtight transport
container and stored at 2–80 C prior to testing. Samples should be tested as soon as
possible, but may be held up to 96 hours at 2–80 C. Samples that will not be tested within
96 hours should be frozen immediately upon receipt and stored at ≤ –20 C until tested.
Specimens may be frozen and thawed twice.
Human stool samples, preserved in Cary Blair-based media: Samples should be stored at
2–80 C prior to testing. Samples should be tested as soon as possible, but may be held up
to 96 hours at 2–8 C0. Samples that will not be tested within 96 hours should be frozen
immediately upon receipt and stored at ≤ –20 C until tested. Specimens may be frozen
and thawed twice.
Controls: The controls are used to monitor reagent reactivity. Failure of the controls to
produce the expected results can mean that one or more of the reagents are no longer
reactive at the time of use that the test was not performed correctly, or that reagents or
samples were not added. Repeat the control tests as the first step in determining the root
cause of the failure.
d. Detection limit:
The following tables summarize the study design used to determine the Limit of
Detection (LoD), for the Premier™ CAMPY kit, of C. jejuni and C. coli, respectively.
The analytical sensitivity of these assays for C. jejuni and C. coli were based on 45 tests
for each measurand and with a stated 95 % probability of obtaining positive responses
(i.e., LoD) at the following levels of the measurands:
C. jejuni - 1.2 x 106 cells/mL
C. coli - 8.0 x 106 cells/ml
7

--- Page 8 ---
8

--- Page 9 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference Testing
In this study, the sponsor added selected drugs, and other non-microbial substances
that might be present in stool samples from healthy persons or patients with signs
and symptoms of gastroenteritis, to three positive and three negative samples.
They then inoculated the samples with C. jejuni near the limit of detection (LoD)
of the assay. The final concentrations of the substances in the samples were as
follows:
• Barium Sulfate (5 mg/mL)
• Fecal fat (equivalent to 2.65 mg stearic plus 1.3 mg palmitic acids per mL)
• Hemoglobin (as methhemoglobin) (3.2 mg/mL)
• Imodium AD® (0.00667 mg/mL)
• Kaopectate® (0.87 mg/mL)
• Mucin (3.33 mg/mL)
• Mylanta® (4.2 mg/mL), Pepto-Bismol® (0.87 mg/mL)
• Prilosec® (0.5 mg/mL)
• Tagamet® (0.5 mg/mL)
• TUMS® (0.5 mg/mL), whole blood (5% v/v)
Meridian Biosciences tested the spiked samples in parallel with an unspiked dilution
control for reference. All samples were tested in triplicate. The sponsor provides the
following interpretation of results for Premier CAMPY at OD :
450/630
Negative test: <0.100
Positive Test: ≥ 0.100
The negative results observed suggest that none of the potentially interfering substances
9

--- Page 10 ---
meets the criteria for an interferent.
Cross-reactivity Study
Microorganisms that were present as normal intestinal flora or associated with
gastroenteritis were evaluated as to their effects on assay performance. Fungi and
bacteria were tested at final concentrations in human stool of 1.1 x 108 CFU/mL. Viruses
were tested at final concentrations of 1.3 x 104 to 3.1 x 106 TCID /mL. The sponsor
50
provides the following interpretation of results for Premier CAMPY at OD :
450/630
Negative test: <0.100
Positive Test: ≥ 0.100
No cross-reactivity was observed.
These results suggest that none of the following organisms in stool reacts with Premier
CAMPY.
10

--- Page 11 ---
Normal/Gastritis Associated Intestinal Flora
Bacteria Fungi Viruses
Aeromonas hydrophila Candida albicans Adenovirus Types 40 and
Bacteroides fragilis 41
Campylobacter fetus Coxsackievirus
C. lari Echovirus
Clostridium difficile Rotavirus
C. perfringens
Enterobacter cloacae
Enterococcus faecalis
Escherichia coli
E. coli 0157:H7
E. fergusonii
E. hermannii
Helicobacter pylori
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Lactococcus lactis
Listeria monocytogenes
Peptostreptococcus
anaerobius
Plesiomonas shigelloides
Proteus vulgaris
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
P. f1uorescens
Salmonella Groups BE
Serratia liquefacie
S. marcescens
Shigella boydii
S. dysenteriae
S. Flexneri
S. sonnei,
Staphylococcus aureus
S. epidermidis
Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Yersinia enterocolitica
Strain Reactivity Study
The sponsor tested the reactivity of the following Campylobacter stock cultures from
different sources, at 1.1 x 108 CFU/mL with Premier CAMPY: C. coli strains 10956,
17755, 36994 and 53138 and C. jejuni strains 6951, 10940, 12081, 29411 and 38106.
In this study, triplicates of each strain were spiked into a negative stool matrix. The
negative sample matrix was confirmed nonreactive with the predicate device. The
control was prepared by spiking the matrix with buffer instead of organism. Results
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
Normal/Gastritis Associated Intestinal Flora		
Bacteria	Fungi	Viruses
Aeromonas hydrophila
Bacteroides fragilis
Campylobacter fetus
C. lari
Clostridium difficile
C. perfringens
Enterobacter cloacae
Enterococcus faecalis
Escherichia coli
E. coli 0157:H7
E. fergusonii
E. hermannii
Helicobacter pylori
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Lactococcus lactis
Listeria monocytogenes
Peptostreptococcus
anaerobius
Plesiomonas shigelloides
Proteus vulgaris
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
P. f1uorescens
Salmonella Groups BE
Serratia liquefacie
S. marcescens
Shigella boydii
S. dysenteriae
S. Flexneri
S. sonnei,
Staphylococcus aureus
S. epidermidis
Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Yersinia enterocolitica	Candida albicans	Adenovirus Types 40 and
41
Coxsackievirus
Echovirus
Rotavirus

--- Page 12 ---
showed that the negative control was nonreactive when tested, while each of the stool
specimens spiked with the above listed Campylobacter stock cultures was reactive.
e. Assay cut-off:
Interpretation of Results
Visual Reading
Negative = Colorless to very faint yellow
Positive = Definite yellow color
A very faint yellow color must be evaluated by a spectrophotometric reading.
Spectrophotometric Single Wavelength (450 nm)
Negative: < 0.150
Positive: ≥ 0.150
Negative Control: < 0.150
Positive Control: ≥ 0.600
Spectrophotometric Dual Wavelength (450/630 nm)
Negative: < 0.100
Positive: ≥ 0.100
Negative Control: < 0.100
Positive Control: ≥ 0.600
If a Negative Control is < 0.000, blank the plate reader again to air and reread the plate.
A positive result indicates the presence of Campylobacter antigens. A negative result
indicates the absence of Campylobacter antigens, or that the level of antigens is below
what can be detected by the assay. The magnitude of the OD above the cutoff is neither
indicative of the severity or extent of Campylobacter infection, nor can it be correlated to
an endpoint titer. Extremely strong positive samples may yield either an intense yellow
color or a purple precipitate within a few minutes of stopping the reaction. In this case,
the spectrophotometer may yield an “out” reading. This reading is considered a positive.
If the frequency of low positive results (OD between 0.150 and 0.200 for single
wavelength and between 0.100 and 0.150 with dual wavelength) is greater than 5% of
specimens tested, this may indicate insufficient washing, more, vigorous washing or
increasing the washes to seven washes in step 5 of the procedure is recommended.
1. Comparison studies:
a. Method Comparison with Predicate:
N/A
12

--- Page 13 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Specimen matrix interference has not been observed in this assay as samples are
significantly diluted before testing in Sample Diluent. For this reason, the
Positive and Negative Controls supplied as part of this assay are prepared in
matrices similar to the Sample Diluent. If control materials that are identical in
composition to test samples are preferred, the user can prepare these by diluting
known positive and negative specimens in Sample Diluent according to the
SPECIMEN PREPARATION section of the package insert.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity
Meridian Bioscience established the performance of Premier CAMPY in clinical
trials using bacterial culture as the reference comparator method. They conducted
their clinical studies at four independent test sites located in the Western, Midwestern
and Southeastern regions of the United States. In total, they tested 2073 qualified
patient samples. Of these, 166 were retrospective frozen samples and the remaining
1907 prospective. The sponsor collected the majority (1862/2073) of samples in a
Cary Blair-based transport and preservative medium. They tested the remaining 211
samples in the unpreserved state. They collected stool from both males (41 %) and
females (57%); however, they were unaware of the sex of 2% of their patients. The
age groups of the patients ranged from less than one month of age to 97 years. No
differences in test performance were observed based on patient age or sex. The
following tables illustrate the assay performance by clinical site.
13

--- Page 14 ---
b. Clinical Specificity
See 3a above
c. Other Clinical Supportive data
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected Values/Reference Range:
The performance of Premier CAMPY was evaluated during 2008 in several
14

--- Page 15 ---
geographic regions of the United States. The incidence of positive samples
(C. jejuni or C. coli) during this period was approximately 1.5%. The expected
frequency for an individual laboratory may differ from this number since it is
dependent on factors such as locale, time of the year, and whether an outbreak has
occurred.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
15