
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083891
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification materials for Triiodothyronine (T3), Thyroxine (T4), human
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), Cortisol, and Free T4 (FT4).
D. Type of Test:
Calibration verification materials
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VALIDATE® THY Calibration Verification Test Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product Code:
JJY
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
VALIDATE THY Calibration Verification Test Set consists of two sets of bottles,
a THY set and a FT4 Set. The THY set consists of five (5) levels of the following
four analytes: Triiodothyronine (T3), Thyroxine (T4), human Thyroid Stimulating

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Hormone (TSH), and Cortisol, and the FT4 set consists of five (5) levels
containing Free Thyroxine (FT4).
VALIDATE THY Calibration Verification Test Set solutions are intended for in
vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative determination of linearity, calibration
verification and verification of reportable range in automated, semi automated,
and manual chemistry systems.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Automated, semi-automated, and manual clinical chemistry systems
I. Device Description:
VALIDATE® THY Calibration Verification Test Sets are human serum based
calibration verification / linearity materials containing multiple levels used to
establish the relationship between theoretical operation and actual performance of the
included analytes. Each test set consists of one bottle each of Levels 1 through 5.
One bottle of Base Matrix is also included. There exists a linear relationship among
Levels 1 through. Human source material is considered a potentially biohazardous
material. These materials were tested and found negative for HIV-1/2, HCV, HBV,
and HBsAg. Because no test method can offer complete assurance that infectious
agents are absent, these specimens should be handled and treated as potentially
infectious.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VALIDATE® Thyroid Calibration Verification/Linearity Test Set
2. Predicate K number(s):
k062501
3. Comparison with predicate:
Predicate Device
For in vitro diagnostic use in For in vitro diagnostic use in
quantitative determination of quantitative determination of
linearity, calibration verification linearity, calibration verification
Intended and verification of reportable and verification of reportable
Use ranges in automated, semi- ranges in automated, semi-
automated and manual chemistry automated and manual chemistry
systems. systems.
Analytes T3, T4, TSH, Cortisol T3, T4, TSH, Cortisol, Free T4
Matrix human serum human serum
Number of 5 5

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Predicate	Device
Intended
Use	For in vitro diagnostic use in
quantitative determination of
linearity, calibration verification
and verification of reportable
ranges in automated, semi-
automated and manual chemistry
systems.	For in vitro diagnostic use in
quantitative determination of
linearity, calibration verification
and verification of reportable
ranges in automated, semi-
automated and manual chemistry
systems.
Analytes	T3, T4, TSH, Cortisol	T3, T4, TSH, Cortisol, Free T4
Matrix	human serum	human serum
Number of	5	5

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
Levels plus a base matrix
Liquid, Liquid,
Preparation
ready to use ready to use
Packaging 3.0 mL each level 1.5 mL each level
Stability Until Expiration Until Expiration
Storage -10 to -20°C -10 to -20°C
VALIDATE® THY Calibration Verification Test Set differs from the current product
in it includes a set for FT4.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP6-A Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
VALIDATE THY Calibration Verification Test Set solutions are tested during
manufacturing with standards traceable to National Institute for Standards and
Technology (NIST) Standard Reference Material (SRM) where available. For
analytes where NIST materials are not available, primary analytical standards
are used.
Each lot of the VALIDATE THY Calibration Verification Test Set is
manufactured such that a linear relationship exists among the Levels 1
through 5. The expected value of the Base Matrix is zero, however, in some
instances a non-zero result may be obtained.
Actual results obtained may vary depending on instrumentation, methodology
and assay temperature. Results may also be dependent on the accuracy of the
instrument/reagent system calibration. The degree of acceptable non-linearity
is an individual judgment based on methodology, clinical significance and
medical decision levels of the test analyte.
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were described and found to
be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable

[Table 1 on page 3]
Levels	plus a base matrix	
Preparation	Liquid,
ready to use	Liquid,
ready to use
Packaging	3.0 mL each level	1.5 mL each level
Stability	Until Expiration	Until Expiration
Storage	-10 to -20°C	-10 to -20°C

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparaison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable)
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirement of 21 CFR part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.