
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k083263
B. Purpose for Submission:
A 510(k) for a diabetes management program and website using the Polymap
Wireless Polytel GMA glucose meter data transmission accessory cleared under
k070559
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Symcare Personalized Health Solutions, Inc
Symcare Diabetes Management Program
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Glucose data transmission
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The SymCare Diabetes Management Program (DMP) is an online tool that
helps patients to manage their diabetes and communicate their blood glucose
readings to their invited healthcare professionals, who they partner with in
managing their diabetes. A validated blood glucose meter connected via a
Bluetooth accessory, “the Polymap Wireless Polytel Glucose Meter Accessory
(GMA)” (k070559), to a validated cellular phone, is used to transmit glucose
readings from the glucose meter to the DMP online system, which is
accessible by the healthcare provider as well as the patient.
2. Principles of Operation:
Not applicable
3. Modes of Operation:
Not applicable
4. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable
6. Calibration:
Not applicable

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
7. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
8. Software:
The system requirements for the DMP are:
Operating Systems:
Windows XP or VISTA Home Premium or better
Macintosh OS X
Linux
Browsers:
Firefox 2.x/3.x
Internet Explorer 7 or 8
Adobe Flash 8 plug in
Acrobat Reader 5.0 plug in
Safari
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X___ or No ______
The applicant provided software documentation that supports the device was
designed and developed under good software LifeCycle processes.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation Section:
21CFR §862.1345 - Glucose Test System
21CFR §862.2100 - Calculator/Data Processing Module for Clinical Use
2. Classification:
Class II, I respectively
3. Product Code:
NBW, JQP
4. Panel:
75, Chemistry
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The SymCare Diabetes Management Program is intended for use in home
settings to aid people with diabetes and healthcare professionals in the review,
analysis and evaluation of historical blood glucose test results to support

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
effective diabetes management. It is intended for use as an accessory to blood
glucose meters with data management capabilities. This system is intended for
use by people 18 years of age and older. The SymCare Diabetes Management
Program is not intended to provide treatment decisions or to be used as a
substitute for professional healthcare judgment. All patient medical diagnoses
and treatment are to be performed under the supervision and oversight of an
appropriate healthcare professional.
2. Special Condition for use Statement(s):
Prescription use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
MyCare Team Inc., MCT-Diabetes (k073699)
e-San Limited, Think Positive Diabetes Management System (k061328)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
COMPARISON OF THE SYMCARE DMP TO
THE MCT-DIABETES and THINK POSITIVE DMS
SYMCARE DMP MCT-DIABETES THINK POSITIVE DMS
(Subject) (Predicate K073699) (Predicate K061328)
The SymCare Diabetes The MCT-Diabetes software The e-San Bluetooth Cradle is
Management Program is serves as an interface intended to be used by patients at
intended for use in home between the software in home. It is physically connected
settings to aid people with personal glucose monitoring to a LifeScan OneTouch®
diabetes and healthcare devices and a general purpose Ultra® Blood Glucose
professionals in the review, health management database Monitoring System and
analysis and evaluation of to assist in the review, wirelessly sends the signals (via
historical blood glucose test analysis and evaluation of Bluetooth V1.2) to a Bluetooth
results to support effective blood glucose test results. enable cellular phone such as the
diabetes management. It is MCT-Diabetes is designed Nokia 6230. The e-San
intended for use as an for home use and professional Bluetooth Cradle serves as the
accessory to blood glucose healthcare settings. remote communication link
meters with data between the LifeScan
management capabilities. OneTouch® Ultra® Blood
This system is intended for Glucose Monitoring System and
use by people 18 years of a cellular telephone. The t+
age and older. The SymCare Diabetes System enables users to
Diabetes Management store and display data on the
Program is not intended to cellular phone, and to send data
provide treatment decisions from the cellular telephone to a
or to be used as a substitute remote database for storage and
for professional healthcare display via the internet.
judgment. All patient
medical diagnoses and
treatment are to be
performed under the
supervision and oversight of
an appropriate healthcare
professional.

[Table 1 on page 4]
COMPARISON OF THE SYMCARE DMP TO
THE MCT-DIABETES and THINK POSITIVE DMS		
SYMCARE DMP
(Subject)	MCT-DIABETES
(Predicate K073699)	THINK POSITIVE DMS
(Predicate K061328)
The SymCare Diabetes
Management Program is
intended for use in home
settings to aid people with
diabetes and healthcare
professionals in the review,
analysis and evaluation of
historical blood glucose test
results to support effective
diabetes management. It is
intended for use as an
accessory to blood glucose
meters with data
management capabilities.
This system is intended for
use by people 18 years of
age and older. The SymCare
Diabetes Management
Program is not intended to
provide treatment decisions
or to be used as a substitute
for professional healthcare
judgment. All patient
medical diagnoses and
treatment are to be
performed under the
supervision and oversight of
an appropriate healthcare
professional.	The MCT-Diabetes software
serves as an interface
between the software in
personal glucose monitoring
devices and a general purpose
health management database
to assist in the review,
analysis and evaluation of
blood glucose test results.
MCT-Diabetes is designed
for home use and professional
healthcare settings.	The e-San Bluetooth Cradle is
intended to be used by patients at
home. It is physically connected
to a LifeScan OneTouch®
Ultra® Blood Glucose
Monitoring System and
wirelessly sends the signals (via
Bluetooth V1.2) to a Bluetooth
enable cellular phone such as the
Nokia 6230. The e-San
Bluetooth Cradle serves as the
remote communication link
between the LifeScan
OneTouch® Ultra® Blood
Glucose Monitoring System and
a cellular telephone. The t+
Diabetes System enables users to
store and display data on the
cellular phone, and to send data
from the cellular telephone to a
remote database for storage and
display via the internet.

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
Features SYMCARE DMP MCT-DIABETES THINK POSITIVE (t+)
(Subject) (Predicate K073699) DMS
(Predicate K061328)
Intended Home users, healthcare Home use or clinical Home users and healthcare
Users providers (including assist diabetics, families, providers
SymCare healthcare and professionals in
professionals) management of blood
glucose support diabetes
management
Software Single (individual) or Single (individual) or Single (individual) or
Use multiple user (clinical) multiple user (clinical) multiple user (clinical)
settings settings settings
Installation Internet link Internet link Internet link
of Program
Communica- Cellular phone Cellular phone Cellular phone
tion Method
Connectivity Bluetooth Bluetooth Bluetooth
Display Cellular telephone and Cellular telephone and Cellular telephone and
monitors connected to a monitors connected to a monitors connected to a
central server central server central server
Glucose LifeScan OneTouch® Wide range of supported LifeScan OneTouch®
Meters Ultra® and Ultra® II meters are listed on Ultra® Meter
Meters; website;
As additional software As additional software
protocols are obtained protocols are obtained and
and devices are devices are validated,
validated, capabilities capabilities will be
will be broadened to broadened to include
include other meters other meters
Report • Logbook • Logbook Various
Types • Readings line chart • Readings line chart
• Average bar chart • Average bar chart
• Percentage pie chart • Percentage pie chart
• Percentage readings • Percentage readings
by time of day by time of day
Types of • Insulin list • Insulin list Various
Information • Medication list • Medication list
That Can Be • Laboratory results • Exercise
Manually
• Blood pressure data
Entered
• Laboratory results

[Table 1 on page 5]
Features	SYMCARE DMP
(Subject)	MCT-DIABETES
(Predicate K073699)	THINK POSITIVE (t+)
DMS
(Predicate K061328)
Intended
Users	Home users, healthcare
providers (including
SymCare healthcare
professionals)	Home use or clinical
assist diabetics, families,
and professionals in
management of blood
glucose support diabetes
management	Home users and healthcare
providers
Software
Use	Single (individual) or
multiple user (clinical)
settings	Single (individual) or
multiple user (clinical)
settings	Single (individual) or
multiple user (clinical)
settings
Installation
of Program	Internet link	Internet link	Internet link
Communica-
tion Method	Cellular phone	Cellular phone	Cellular phone
Connectivity	Bluetooth	Bluetooth	Bluetooth
Display	Cellular telephone and
monitors connected to a
central server	Cellular telephone and
monitors connected to a
central server	Cellular telephone and
monitors connected to a
central server
Glucose
Meters	LifeScan OneTouch®
Ultra® and Ultra® II
Meters;
As additional software
protocols are obtained
and devices are
validated, capabilities
will be broadened to
include other meters	Wide range of supported
meters are listed on
website;
As additional software
protocols are obtained and
devices are validated,
capabilities will be
broadened to include
other meters	LifeScan OneTouch®
Ultra® Meter
Report
Types	• Logbook
• Readings line chart
• Average bar chart
• Percentage pie chart
• Percentage readings
by time of day	• Logbook
• Readings line chart
• Average bar chart
• Percentage pie chart
• Percentage readings
by time of day	Various
Types of
Information
That Can Be
Manually
Entered	• Insulin list
• Medication list
• Laboratory results	• Insulin list
• Medication list
• Exercise
• Blood pressure data
• Laboratory results	Various

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Not applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Data transmission was validated to be accurate from the glucose meter to
the Polytel GMA and to the SymCare Database. The validation process
included the following steps 1.) The 510(k) cleared PolyMap Wireless
Polytel Glucose Meter Accessory (GMA) was connected to a One Touch
Ultra 2 Meter, Blood Glucose Readings were taken following the Ultra 2
Meter directions for use and comments were added to the readings using
the Meter. 2.) These readings and comments were sent to the PolyMap
when the Blood Glucose Test Strip was removed from the meter (as
defined by normal PolyMap operation). 3.) The PolyMap then sends the
data to transient storage on the mobile phone application. 4.) The mobile
phone application then sends the PolyMap data log to the SymCare data
receiver. 5.) These data are then imported into the SymCare Diabetes
Management Program (DMP) 6.) The meter was then connected to the
One Touch Data Management Software (OT DMS) to retrieve the initial
readings and verified accurate data. Data elements used for validation
were glucose readings, comments, time and date.
Additionally a human factor’s study was performed as follows:
Participants:
A total of 14 participants included in the study were defined as those
diagnosed with Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes and who were between the ages
of 18 and 64. Participants were undergoing treatment for their Diabetes
with either insulin or an oral agent and were regularly performing self
monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG), without assistance, at a minimum
of 2-3 times per day using the LifeScan Ultra or Ultra2 meter.

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
Health Care Professional Participants:
Health Care Professionals( HCP’s) who participated in the study can be
defined as those involved in the care and management of patients with
diabetes type 1 and type 2 who are on insulin or a type of oral agent for
the treatment of type 2 diabetes. There were 4 Medical Doctors, 1
Registered Nurse, and 1 Registered Dietician.
Methods:
Participants who were already proficient in SMBG using the LifeScan
Ultra or Ultra2 meter utilized the Symcare Diabetes Management Program
for a 7-day period. Following use of the device for a period of 7 days the
participants provided evaluation of the Symcare Diabetes Management
Program via a Human Factors Task Assessment and a User
Comprehension Questionnaire on Day 7(+ 3 day window). These were
administered by a study doctor or coordinator and took place at In-Center
Visits on Day 5 and Day 7 (+ 3 day window). Medical team members also
utilized the Symcare Diabetes Management Program during the 7-day
period. An evaluation of the system was provided through a Human
Factors Task Assessment and User Questionnaires administered by a
Study doctor or coordinator, which specifically focused on the medical
team user experience. It was noted that some patient’s data did not transfer
rapidly to the Symcare Diabetes Management Program secure website.
The Symcare Diabetes Management Program allows for the transfer of a
maximum of 100 readings from the meter at one time.
Discussion and Overall Conclusions:
The Primary Endpoint was met for each questionnaire for health care
professionals and participants, which assessed human factors tasks,
labeling comprehension and ease of use.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.