
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K090137
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Low level Quality Control with Nucleated red Blood cells (NRBC)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Streck, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
STaK-Chex Plus Retics
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625 Hematology Quality Control mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GLQ, Mixture, Control, White Blood and Red-Cell Indices
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
STaK-Chex Plus Retics is an assayed whole blood control for evaluating the
accuracy and precision of automated procedures that measure blood cell
parameters.
2. Indication(s) for use:
STaK-Chex Plus Retics is an assayed whole blood control for evaluating the
accuracy and precision of automated procedures that measure blood cell
parameters.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
STaK-Chex Plus Retics is a stabilized suspension of human red blood cells, a nucleated
red blood cell analog, a white blood cell component consisting of human and non-human
analogs and a platelet component consisting of a non-human analog in a preservative
medium. This product is packaged in plastic vials containing 4.5ml. The closures are
polypropylene screw caps with polyethylene liners. There are three different levels (low,
normal and high). The vials will be packaged in a six (6) or twelve (12) welled vacuum
formed “clam–shell” container with the package insert/assay sheet. The product must be
stored at 2 – 10° C.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
STaK-Chex Plus Retics, Streck, Inc.
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K992887
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use STaK-Chex Plus Retics is STaK-Chex Plus Retics
an assayed whole blood is intended to be used as
control for evaluating the a control for complete
accuracy and precision of blood cell count (CBC),
automated procedures white cell 5-part
that measure blood cell differential, and
parameters. reticulocyte parameters
on Beckman Coulter
GenS series hematology
instruments.
Contents (Reagents) Low Level – Stabilized Stabilized human and
human and animal blood, animal blood
plus a nucleated red
blood cell analog, Normal
and High Levels same as
Predicate
Closed Vial Stability 75 days 105 days
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Open Vial Stability 14 14
Storage Conditions 2-10° C 2-10° C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
Laboratories require assayed material for quality control of automated procedures that
measure whole blood parameters. Daily use of this whole blood control provides quality
control data for confirming the precision and accuracy of instrument operation protocols.
Use of stabilized cell preparations for controlling laboratory testing protocols is an
established procedure. When handled like a patient sample and assayed on a properly
calibrated and functioning instrument this whole blood control will provide values within
the expected range indicated on the assay sheet.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			STaK-Chex Plus Retics is
an assayed whole blood
control for evaluating the
accuracy and precision of
automated procedures
that measure blood cell
parameters.			STaK-Chex Plus Retics
is intended to be used as
a control for complete
blood cell count (CBC),
white cell 5-part
differential, and
reticulocyte parameters
on Beckman Coulter
GenS series hematology
instruments.		
Contents (Reagents)			Low Level – Stabilized
human and animal blood,
plus a nucleated red
blood cell analog, Normal
and High Levels same as
Predicate			Stabilized human and
animal blood		
Closed Vial Stability			75 days			105 days		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Open Vial Stability			14			14		
Storage Conditions			2-10° C			2-10° C		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility Data: Ten consecutive instrument runs performed on the same
analyzer with a single vial of control. Resulting product performance data
compared to the parameter specific assay ranges. The review of the data was
within acceptable limits.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Open Vial Stability: : A minimum of 14 days stability @ 2- 10°C is required
to substantiate the closed vial stability claim. The review of the data was
within acceptable limits.
Closed Vial Stability: A minimum of 75 days stability @ 2- 10°C is required
to substantiate the closed vial stability claim. The review of the data was
within acceptable limits.
Value Assignment: The STaK-Chex Plus Retics (with nRBC) product is
manufactured and assigned based on instrument specific requirements. A
minimum of three vials per level are tested on the Beckman Coulter LH750,
LH500 instruments. Each vial is tested for a minimum of three test events
performed on different dates. Referees are requested to run each vial in
duplicate on the instrument application consecutively. The data is entered into
the validated QC link database program which calculates mean, standard
deviation, and coefficient of variation for each parameter analyzed. Final
assay assignment values are determined using the data collected and
established product performance characteristics. Expected range values
assigned to the assay are based on the standard deviation of the assay data.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
5