
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k090541
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Multiple constituents listed in the package insert
Control material for AFP, Cortisol, DHEAs, Estradiol, FSH, fT3, fT4, hCG, IgE,
Insulin, LH, Progesterone, Prolactin, SHBG,T3, T4, Testosterone, Thyroglobulin,
TSH, T-Uptake approx, CEA, and tPSA.
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Elecsys PreciControl Universal
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed).
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
(75) Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
See indications for use below.
2. Indications for use:
Elecsys PreciControl Universal is used for quality control of Elecsys
immunoassays on the Elecsys and cobas e immunoassay analyzers.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Elecsys and cobas e immunoassay analyzers
I. Device Description:
The Elecsys PreciControl Universal is a lyophilized product consisting of
added antigens in a human serum matrix. During manufacture, the analytes
are spiked into the matrix at the desired concentration levels.
Reagents - working solutions
• PC U1: 2 bottles for 2 x 3.0 mL of control serum (human)
• PC U2: 2 bottles for 2 x 3.0 mL of control serum (human)
Safety data sheet available for professional user on request.
All products derived from human blood are prepared exclusively
from the blood of donors tested individually and shown to be free
from HBsAg and antibodies to HCV and HIV. The initial thyroid glandular tissue
extract containing the human thyroglobulin has shown to be free from HBsAg and
antibodies to HCV and HIV. The testing methods applied were FDA-approved or
cleared in compliance with the European Directive 98/79/EC, Annex II, List A.
Disposal of all waste material should be in accordance with local guidelines.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Elecsys PreciControl Universal (PCU)
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k051687
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Characteristics Elecsys PreciControl Predicate device
Universal Elecsys PreciControl
MultiAnalyte
Intended Use Elecsys PreciControl Elecsys PreciControl
Universal is used for Universal is used for
quality control of Elecsys quality control of the
immunoassays on the Elecsys immunoassays
Elecsys and cobas on Elecsys immunoassay
immunoassay analyzers. systems.
Reagent Format Same Lyophilized, based on
human serum in two
concentration ranges.
Matrix Same Human serum matrix
Handling Same Reconstitute with exactly
3.0 mL distilled water
and allow to stand closed
for 30 minutes to
reconstitute, and then
mix gently.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced in the submission.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Characteristics	Elecsys PreciControl
Universal		Predicate device	
			Elecsys PreciControl	
			MultiAnalyte	
Intended Use	Elecsys PreciControl
Universal is used for
quality control of Elecsys
immunoassays on the
Elecsys and cobas
immunoassay analyzers.	Elecsys PreciControl
Universal is used for
quality control of the
Elecsys immunoassays
on Elecsys immunoassay
systems.		
Reagent Format	Same	Lyophilized, based on
human serum in two
concentration ranges.		
Matrix	Same	Human serum matrix		
Handling	Same	Reconstitute with exactly
3.0 mL distilled water
and allow to stand closed
for 30 minutes to
reconstitute, and then
mix gently.		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Elecsys PreciControl
Universal

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Roche Diagnostics maintains a set of master calibrators for each assay that
have values assigned that are traceable to the various standards such as WHO,
NIST, or in-house developed standards. The Elecsys PreciControl products
are assayed and compared to these reference preparations and target values
and ranges are assigned.
Each control level was tested on a multiple analyzers using Elecsys reagents.
Two series of measurements were performed on each instrument. Samples
were tested in duplicate and concentrations were read against the respective
master calibrator curve. The target value is then calculated for each analyzer
platform and set as the median of the determined values.
The protocols for establishing shelf-life and open-vial stability were reviewed
and adequate. An accelerated stability study was performed to simulate a
shelf life of 24 months at normal storage conditions of 2-8°C. Data supports
the package insert claims that reconstituted Elecsys PreciControl Universal is
stable: on the analyzer up to 5 hours at 20-25°C; after thawing, 3 days at 2-
8°C; after reconstitution, -20°C for one month. Data supports the package
insert claims that insulin within the reconstituted Elecsys PreciControl
Universal is stable: on the analyzer up to 5 hours at 20-25°C; and after
reconstitution, -20°C for one month. Protocol for real time stability and 9
month data are provided.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5