
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k090964
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for a Premarket notification
C. Measurand:
Staphylococcus aureus specific proteins
D. Type of Test:
The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test is a qualitative, in vitro
immunochromatographic assay for the presumptive identification of Staphylococcus
aureus.
E. Applicant:
Binax, Inc
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
CFR 866.2660
2. Classification:
I
3. Product code:
JWX: Microorganism differentiation and identification device
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test is a qualitative, in vitro
immunochromatographic assay for the presumptive identification of
Staphylococcus aureus. The test is performed directly on blood culture samples
positive for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus
aureus Test is not intended to diagnose Staphylococcus aureus nor to guide or
monitor treatment for Staphylococcus aureus infections. Subculturing positive
blood cultures is necessary to recover organisms for susceptibility testing and/or
differentiation of mixed growth.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test is a qualitative, in vitro
immunochromatographic assay for the presumptive identification of
Staphylococcus aureus. The test is performed directly on blood culture samples
positive for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus
aureus Test is not intended to diagnose Staphylococcus aureus nor to guide or
monitor treatment for Staphylococcus aureus infections. Subculturing positive
blood cultures is necessary to recover organisms for susceptibility testing and/or
differentiation of mixed growth.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test is a rapid immunochromatographic
membrane assay that uses highly sensitive polyclonal antibodies to detect a
Staphylococcus aureus specific protein directly from blood cultures which have
been identified as being positive for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. These
antibodies and a control antibody are immobilized onto a test strip as two distinct
lines and combined with other reagents/pads. This test strip is mounted inside a
cardboard, book-shaped hinged test device.
Specimens are aliquots from blood cultures which have been identified as positive
for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. After the sample is prepared, it is added to
the sample pad at the top of the test strip and the device is closed. Results are
read at 10 minutes.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
S. aureus PNA FISH™ (AdvanDx)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k060099
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For detection of For detection of
Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus aureus
Reporting Staphylococcus aureus from Same
positive blood cultures
Reading Manual Manual
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology immunochromatographic Fluorescent in situ
membrane assay hybridization
Detection mechanism Polyclonal antibodies to detect Protein nuclei acid probes to
S. aureus specific protein detect S. aureus-specific 16S
ribosomal RNA
Reading method Test strip contained in a Fluorescent microscopy
cardboard, hinged book-
shaped device
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Non applicable
L. Test Principle:
The BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test is a rapid immunochromatographic
membrane assay that uses highly sensitive polyclonal antibodies to detect a
Staphylococcus aureus specific protein directly from blood cultures which have
been identified as being positive for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. The protein-
specific antibodies and a control antibody are immobilized onto a test strip as two
distinct lines and combined with other reagents/pads. This test strip is mounted
inside a cardboard, book-shaped hinged test device.
Specimens are aliquots from blood cultures which have been identified as positive
for Gram-positive cocci in clusters. After the sample is prepared, it is added to
the sample pad at the top of the test strip and the device is closed. Results are
read at 10 minutes.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			For detection of
Staphylococcus aureus			For detection of
Staphylococcus aureus		
Reporting			Staphylococcus aureus from
positive blood cultures			Same		
Reading			Manual			Manual		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Technology			immunochromatographic
membrane assay			Fluorescent in situ
hybridization		
Detection mechanism			Polyclonal antibodies to detect
S. aureus specific protein			Protein nuclei acid probes to
detect S. aureus-specific 16S
ribosomal RNA		
Reading method			Test strip contained in a
cardboard, hinged book-
shaped device			Fluorescent microscopy		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility study was done at three sites, by two operators in duplicates
for five days. Reproducibility was greater than 95%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The controls for the BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test are:
1. Built-in procedural controls with each testing strip
i. The appearance of a pink-purple line at the “control line” position
is an internal positive procedural control to ensure capillary flow
has occurred.
ii. The clearing of the background color from the result window is a
negative background control and should be white within 10
minutes.
iii. Results are invalid without the pink-purple “control-line”. There
were no invalid results in the clinical studies.
2. External Positive and Negative Controls
The overall expected results were greater than 95%.
d. Detection limit:
The LoD for the BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test was: 5.42 x
108cells/mL.
An additional study was conducted to demonstrate the cells/mL in CFU/mL.
There is no significant difference:
5.42 x 108 cells/mL= 4.8 x 108CFU/mL
e. Analytical specificity:
Reactivity
The detection rate was 98.2% (54/55) with the S. aureus tested in the
4

--- Page 5 ---
reactivity study. S. aureus ATCC 14993 tested negative with the
BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test.
Cross Reactivity Study
The study included 96 non-staphylococcal bacteria, three yeasts and 25
coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CNS). It demonstrated that Clostridium
perfringens (four different ATCC strains), C. bifermentans, C. histolyticum,
and Staphylococcus schleiferi subspecies coagulans tested positive with the
BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test.
Interference Study
No interference observed with the 20 substances such as medications, human
blood components, and supplements normally found in blood culture bottle
media.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The reference methods in the clinical studies are:
• Latex agglutination
• Tube coagulase
• Automated identification systems
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
A total of 325 Standard Aerobic (SA) and Standard Anaerobic (SN) blood culture
bottles of the BacT/ALERT® Automated Microbial Detection System were
evaluated in the BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test and compared to
standard methods used routinely by the testing laboratories. It was conducted at
three geographically diversified hospital laboratories within the U.S.
The study included 272 (83.7%) prospective samples (74 SA and 198 CNS), and
53 retrospective samples (11 SA and 42 CNS). The table below was the overall
performance data:
5

--- Page 6 ---
BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test Compared to Reference Method
Reference Method
BinaxNOW®
Staphylococcus aureus
Test Positive Negative
Positive 84 0
Negative 1 240
95% C.I.
Positive Agreement: 98.8% (93.6 – 99.8%)
Negative Agreement: 100.0% (98.4% - 100.0%)
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
See table above
b. Clinical specificity:
See table above
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
For a POSITIVE SAMPLE, the blue Control line turns a pink to purple color
and a second pink to purple Sample Line appears above it in the top half of the
window. Any Sample Line, even when very faint, is positive.
For a NEGATIVE SAMPLE, the blue Control Line turns a pink to purple color.
No other line appears.
A test is INVALID if the blue Control Line does not turn a pink to purple color,
or does not appear at all, whether a Sample Line is present or not.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Reference Method	
BinaxNOW®
Staphylococcus aureus
Test	Positive	Negative
Positive	84	0
Negative	1	240

[Table 2 on page 6]
BinaxNOW®
Staphylococcus aureus
Test

--- Page 7 ---
In the external clinical evaluation of BinaxNOW® Staphylococcus aureus Test, the
overall expected rate of S. aureus in blood culture was 26.2% (85/325), and among the
three site populations, the expected positive rate ranged from 16.9% to 41.5%.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The information submitted in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7