
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k090475
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator/Control material for Troponin-I (TnI), Troponin-T (TnT), BNP, the N-amino
terminus of brain naturiuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), high sensitive C-reactive protein
(hsCRP), and Myeloperoxidase (MPO).
D. Type of Test:
Control Material
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VALIDATE CM2 Calibration Verification/Linearity Test Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY, Multi-analyte controls, all kinds (assayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 5
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indications(s) for use:
VALIDATE CM2 Calibration Verification/Linearity Test Set solutions are intended for
in vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative determination of linearity, calibration
verification and verification of reportable range in automated, semi-automated, and
manual chemistry systems. Each VALIDATE CM2 Calibration Verification/Linearity
Test Set consists of two sets of bottles. Set 1 contains BNP, hs-CRP, Troponin-I, and
MPO. Set 2 contains NT-proBNP, hs-CRP, Troponin-T and MPO.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
VALIDATE CM2 Calibration Verification/Linearity Test solutions are not intended for
use as routine quality control materials or as calibration materials.
These solutions are not intended for use on systems employing reflectance spectroscopy.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Automated, semi-automated, and manual chemistry systems.
I. Device Description:
VALIDATE CM2 Calibration Verification/Linearity Test Set is in a human serum matrix
that is compatible with chemistry systems for measuring Troponin-I (TnI), Troponin-T
(TnT), BNP, the N-amino terminus of brain naturiuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), high
sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP), and Myeloperoxidase (MPO). Each test set contains
two sets of bottles. Set 1 contains TnI, BNP, hsCRP, and MPO; Set 2 contains TnT, NT-
proBNP, hsCRP, and MPO. There is a bottle of base matrix included with each set. Each
bottle contains 2.0 mL of solution. There exists a linear relationship among Levels 1
through 5.
Material of human origin used in the manufacture of this test set has been tested using
FDA approved methods or methods cleared in compliance with the European Directive
98/79/EC, Annex I, III, or IV and found to be non-reactive for HBsAg and antibodies
to HCV and HIV-1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VALIDATE CM1 Calibration Verification/Linearity Test Set.
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 5
k053247
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device: VALIDATE CM2 Predicate: VALIDATE CM1
The Validate Cardiac Marker
VALIDATE CM2 Calibration
Calibration Verification Test
Verification/Linearity Test Set
Sets are used for
solutions are intended for in
quantitatively verifying
vitro diagnostic use in the
Intended Use calibration, validating
quantitative determination of
reportable ranges, and
linearity, calibration
determining linearity in
verification and verification of
automated, semi-automated,
reportable range in automated,
and manual chemistry
semi-automated, and manual
analyzers.
chemistry systems.
Matrix Human Serum Human Serum
Preparation Liquid, ready to use Liquid, ready to use
Stability Until expiration Until expiration
Storage -10 to -20°C -10 to -20°C
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analytes Set 1: BNP, hs-CRP, TnI, CK-MB, MYO
MPO
Set2: NT-proBNP, hsCRP,
TnT, MPO
Number of Levels 2 sets of 6 including base 5 including a 0
matrix
Packaging 12 x 2.0 mL 5 x 3.0 mL
K. Standard/ Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI document EP6-A: Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement
Procedures: A Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device: VALIDATE CM2			Predicate: VALIDATE CM1	
Intended Use			VALIDATE CM2 Calibration
Verification/Linearity Test Set
solutions are intended for in
vitro diagnostic use in the
quantitative determination of
linearity, calibration
verification and verification of
reportable range in automated,
semi-automated, and manual
chemistry systems.			The Validate Cardiac Marker
Calibration Verification Test
Sets are used for
quantitatively verifying
calibration, validating
reportable ranges, and
determining linearity in
automated, semi-automated,
and manual chemistry
analyzers.		
Matrix			Human Serum			Human Serum		
Preparation			Liquid, ready to use			Liquid, ready to use		
Stability			Until expiration			Until expiration		
Storage			-10 to -20°C			-10 to -20°C		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analytes			Set 1: BNP, hs-CRP, TnI,
MPO
Set2: NT-proBNP, hsCRP,
TnT, MPO			CK-MB, MYO		
Number of Levels			2 sets of 6 including base
matrix			5 including a 0		
Packaging			12 x 2.0 mL			5 x 3.0 mL		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: No traceability claims were made.
Stability: Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found
to be acceptable. Test sets are stable until the expiration date printed on the bottle
when stored at -10° to -20°C and handled according to instructions. A maximum of
four (4) freeze-thaw cycles are recommended.
Value Assignment: The raw materials are prepared at high concentration, analyzed,
and are spiked into the human serum matrix. A linear relationship is achieved by
mixing the low and high levels to produce five levels with equally spaced
concentrations. For value assignment the high and low levels (1 and 5) are assayed in
triplicate. Once all the levels are diluted all 5 levels are run again in triplicate, and
then again in triplicate once bottled. Appropriate controls for a given system are run
with each determination and must fall within the cited acceptance range. It is
recommended that each laboratory establish its own values and acceptable non-
linearity.
c. Detection limit:
Not Applicable.
d. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable.
e. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 5
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5