
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k090854
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for blood glucose monitoring systems
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
American Biological Technologies, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
AbT Glucose Control Solution
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX – Quality
control material
Class I, reserved 21 CFR 862.1660 75, Chemistry
(assayed and
unassayed)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJX – Quality
control material
(assayed and
unassayed)			Class I, reserved			21 CFR 862.1660			75, Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
For in vitro diagnostic use (i.e. for external use only) by healthcare professionals
and in the home by people with diabetes mellitus to assess the performance of the
Contour TS Blood Glucose Monitor.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-Counter Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Bayer Contour TS Blood Glucose Monitor
I. Device Description:
The AbT Glucose Control Solution consists of a viscosity-adjusted, aqueous liquid
control solution containing a known quantity of glucose. The product is packaged in
plastic dropper tipped bottles for easy application of the control solutions to the test strips
and a red coloration to aid the user to visually confirm application of the control. The
product is nonhazardous and contains no human or animal derived materials.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Contour Control Solution, Bayer Healthcare
FDTX Glucose Control Solution, American Biological Technologies, Inc.
2. Predicate K number(s):
k023657 and k081915, respectively
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities/Differences
Item Device Contour TS Control Solution FDTX Control
Solution
Indication To check the For self testing by people with To check the
for Use performance of the diabetes and by healthcare performance of the
Contour TS Blood professional as a quality Ascensia Contour
Glucose System control check Blood Glucose System
Number of
1 1 1
Levels
Analyte Glucose Glucose Glucose
Target
100-145 mg/dL 99-142 mg/dL 100-145 mg/dL
Range
Container Plastic bottle with Plastic bottle with dropper-tip Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip dropper-tip
Fill 3.6 mL 2.5 mL 3.6 mL
Volume
Color Red Red Red
Matrix Buffer aqueous Aqueous solution which Buffer aqueous
solution of D-Glucose, contains a measured amount of solution of D-Glucose,
a viscosity modifier, glucose a viscosity modifier,
preservatives and other preservatives and other
non reactive non reactive
ingredients ingredients
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A, Evaluation of the Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities/Differences			
Item	Device	Contour TS Control Solution	FDTX Control
Solution
Indication
for Use	To check the
performance of the
Contour TS Blood
Glucose System	For self testing by people with
diabetes and by healthcare
professional as a quality
control check	To check the
performance of the
Ascensia Contour
Blood Glucose System
Number of
Levels	1	1	1
Analyte	Glucose	Glucose	Glucose
Target
Range	100-145 mg/dL	99-142 mg/dL	100-145 mg/dL
Container	Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip	Plastic bottle with dropper-tip	Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip
Fill
Volume	3.6 mL	2.5 mL	3.6 mL
Color	Red	Red	Red
Matrix	Buffer aqueous
solution of D-Glucose,
a viscosity modifier,
preservatives and other
non reactive
ingredients	Aqueous solution which
contains a measured amount of
glucose	Buffer aqueous
solution of D-Glucose,
a viscosity modifier,
preservatives and other
non reactive
ingredients

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The D-Glucose used in this control is traceable to an in-house glucose preparation
which is traceable to the NIST standard 917b. Values are assigned by repeat
analysis using three different lots of test strips. The mean and standard deviation
are used to establish the acceptable range for the glucose monitoring system.
Stability characteristics of the AbT Glucose Control Solution were determined
using accelerated and real-time studies. The unopened shelf-life is 24 months and
the open vial stability is 90 days at the recommended storage of 36 °F to 86 °F.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
An acceptable range for the AbT glucose control used with the Contour TS blood
glucose monitoring system is on the control vial label. When using this control
material, users are to compare their control result to the range on the control vial
(rather than the range printed on the test strip vial).
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5