
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k090940
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for newborn screening assays screening for deficiencies in
Biotinidase and Galactose-1-phosphate Uridyltransferase (GALT) enzyme activity
D. Type of Test:
Quality control materials
E. Applicant:
Astoria-Pacific, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
SPOTCHECKBlood Spot Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality control material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJT, Enzyme controls
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
SPOTCHECK Blood Spot Controls are used for monitoring assay performance
during in vitro diagnostic newborn screening for deficient Galactose-1-phosphate
Uridyltransferase (GALT) and/or Biotinidase enzyme activity. Enzyme response
quantitation is provided in the product insert.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See intended use(s) above.
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Astoria-Pacific SPOTCHECK Analyzer
I. Device Description:
The controls are prepared with mixtures of human serum and human red blood cells,
and adjusted to approximately 55% hematocrit. Enzyme activity in the Deficient
Control is decreased by heating. Enzyme activity in the Normal Control is supported
by the addition of dithioerythritol (DTE). The mixtures are spotted on Whatman
903A filter paper and allowed to air dry at room temperature.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad Laboratories Quantase Neonatal GALT control set
2. Predicate K number(s):
k990827
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Predicate Device (k990827) Proposed Device
Matrix Dried blood spots Same
Both devices intend to
establish performance of a
Intended use control below the assay cutoff Same
(deficient) and above the
cutoff (within normal limits).
Differences
Item Predicate Device (k990827) Proposed Device
Analytes Galactose-1-phosphate Galactose-1-phosphate
Uridyltransferase (GALT) Uridyltransferase (GALT)
and Biotinidase
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Predicate Device (k990827)			Proposed Device	
Matrix			Dried blood spots			Same		
Intended use			Both devices intend to
establish performance of a
control below the assay cutoff
(deficient) and above the
cutoff (within normal limits).			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Predicate Device (k990827)			Proposed Device	
Analytes			Galactose-1-phosphate
Uridyltransferase (GALT)			Galactose-1-phosphate
Uridyltransferase (GALT)
and Biotinidase		

--- Page 3 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: Control lots are individually tested using FDA-cleared
SPOTCHECK Biotinidase and Uridyl Transferase 50-Hour Reagent Kits to
determine the response of each analyte (enzyme) present. The controls are
analyzed internally on multiple SPOTCHECK instruments. The Normal
Control spots on each card in a series of selected cards are randomly punched
until each card has been sampled 10 times. Similarly, Deficient Control spots
are punched until each card in a series has been sampled 2 times. From each
lot analysis, the mean activity, standard deviation with confidence intervals,
and coefficient of variation are calculated.
The target values are:
• The Normal Control mean activity must be in the range of 30 – 60 ERU
for the biotinidase assay and > 150 μm NADH for the GALT assay.
• The Deficient Control mean activity must be in the range of 0 – 6 ERU
for the biotinidase assay and 0 – 30 μm NADH for the GALT assay.
Inter and intra-card homogeneity is also evaluated for each new lot.
Stability: Recommended storage conditions for the Blood Spot Controls are
< -10˚C and desiccated. Stored in this manner, the controls are stable for a
minimum of 2 years from the manufacture date. The stability has been
determined using real-time stability studies. The stability study protocol and
the acceptance criteria have been reviewed and found to be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
3

--- Page 4 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Value assignment for each lot of the SPOTCHECK Blood Spot Controls on the
SPOTCHECK Biotinidase and Uridyl Transferase 50-Hour Reagent Kits will be
provided on the package insert to demonstrate that the normal and deficient levels
are appropriate with regard to approximate cut-offs for these devices.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4