
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K090700
B. Purpose for Submission:
To determine substantial equivalence for the ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY, Model 7
used to detect Campylobacter (C. jejuni and C. coli) antigens in stool samples
C. Measurand:
Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli antigens
D. Type of Test:
Immunochromatographic rapid test based on the lateral flow principle
E. Applicant:
Meridian Bioscience, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY, Model 7
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21 CFR § 866.3110, Campylobacter spp.
2. Classification: Class I
3. Product code: LQP - Campylobacter spp.
4. Panel: Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY is an immunochromatographic rapid test for the
qualitative detection of specific Campylobacter antigens in human stool.
1

--- Page 2 ---
ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY detects C. jejuni and C. coli in human stool, where
stool may be either unpreserved or preserved in Cary-Blair-based transport media.
Test results are to be used in conjunction with information available from the
patient clinical evaluation and other diagnostic procedures.
ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY is not intended for point-of-care use. The device is
intended for use in clinical hospital, reference, regional, private or state laboratory
settings.
2. Indications for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
ImmunoCard STAT! Campy is a lateral flow-based immunoassay for the direct detection
of Campylobacter antigen in stool. The assay uses monoclonal antibodies specific for an
antigen common to Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli. Stool specimen is
added to Sample Diluent buffer and the diluted sample is added to the sample port of the
device. Campylobacter antigen in the diluted sample binds to the monoclonal antibody-
colloidal gold conjugate as the sample moves through the device. The Campylobacter
capture antibody bound to the assay membrane at the Test position of the device binds
the antigen-Campylobacter specific antibody-colloidal gold complex and yields a visible
pink-red line. The control line functions as the internal assay control by showing
adequate flow of diluted sample through the test device; improper assay execution and/or
deterioration of test reagents. The control line is a goat antimouse antibody bound at the
Control position of the device. A visible pink-red line at the Control position should be
present each time a sample or control is tested. If no pink-red control line is seen, the test
is considered invalid.
Reagents and Test Components:
• ImmunoCard STAT! Campy Test Device: Plastic cassette containing a test strip
with an immobilized monoclonal antibody specific to Campylobacter jejuni and
Campylobacter coli in the Test Line and a goat anti-mouse antibody in the
Control Line. The strip contains a gold-conjugated mouse monoclonal antibody
specific to C. jejuni and C. coli, which serves as the detection antibody. The test
device is provided in a sealed foil pouch with desiccant.
2

--- Page 3 ---
• ImmunoCard STAT! Campy Sample Diluent/Negative Control: A buffered
protein solution containing sodium azide and gentamycin as preservatives
• ImmunoCard STAT! Campy Positive Control: Inactivated Campylobacter jejuni
in a buffered protein solution containing sodium azide and gentamycin as
preservatives
No calibrators are used with this device.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ProSpecT Campylobacter EIA and Premier™ CAMPY EIA
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K982315 and K083464, respectively
3. Comparison with predicates:
Differences between the proposed device and the predicates are highlighted in
bold font.
Item ImmunoCard STAT!CAMPY Predicate Predicate
device Device
ProSpecT Premier
Campylobacter CAMPY
Manufacturer Meridian Bioscience Remel Meridian
Bioscience
Assay type Lateral flow EIA EIA
Intended use
Qualitative/Quantitative Qualitative Qualitative
Qualitative
Screening, diagnostic or Diagnostic Diagnostic
identification test Diagnostic
Calibrator No No No
Monitoring therapy No No No
Reagents/components
Microwells No YES YES
Sample Diluent Yes Yes Yes
Enzyme Conjugate No YES YES
Wash Buffer No YES YES
Substrate No YES YES
Stop Solution No YES YES
Positive Control Yes Yes Yes
Negative Control Yes Yes Yes
Test Device Yes NO NO
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item	ImmunoCard STAT!CAMPY	Predicate	Predicate
		device	Device
		ProSpecT	Premier
		Campylobacter	CAMPY
Manufacturer	Meridian Bioscience	Remel	Meridian
Bioscience
Assay type	Lateral flow	EIA	EIA
Intended use			
Qualitative/Quantitative	Qualitative	Qualitative	Qualitative
Screening, diagnostic or
identification test	Diagnostic	Diagnostic	Diagnostic
Calibrator	No	No	No
Monitoring therapy	No	No	No
Reagents/components			
Microwells	No	YES	YES
Sample Diluent	Yes	Yes	Yes
Enzyme Conjugate	No	YES	YES
Wash Buffer	No	YES	YES
Substrate	No	YES	YES
Stop Solution	No	YES	YES
Positive Control	Yes	Yes	Yes
Negative Control	Yes	Yes	Yes
Test Device	Yes	NO	NO

--- Page 4 ---
Species detected
C. coli Yes UNK Yes
C. lari No No No
C. fetus No No No
Reading method
Visual Yes Yes Yes
No YES YES
Spectrophotometric
End point Pos = visible pink- POS = YELLOW COLOR POS = DEFINITE
red line Neg = no NEGATIVE = COLORLESS YELLOW COLOR NEG =
line COLORLESS VERY
FAINT YELLOW
Calibrator No No No
Equipment Not needed General laboratory General laboratory
semiautomated washer semiautomated washer
(optional) General (optional) General
laboratory laboratory
spectrophotometer spectrophotometer
(optional) (optional) StatFax
microplate
incubator/shaker (optional)
Antibody sources
Capture Mouse Rabbit polyclonal Mouse monoclonal
monoclonal
Detector Mouse Rabbit polyclonal Mouse monoclonal
monoclonal
Sample Types
Human stool Yes Yes Yes
(direct)
Broth culture No Yes No
Endpoint determinations
Visible? Yes – pink-red line Yes – yellow color Yes – yellow color
Positive (dual N/A Yes ≥ 0.140 Yes ≥ 0.100
wavelength)
Negative (dual N/A Yes < 0.100 Yes < 0.100
wavelength)
Indeterminant N/A Yes 0.100 to 0.139 None
(dual wavelength)
UNK = Unknown
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced:
The sponsor provided Form FDA 3645 referencing the standard User Protocol for
Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance (FDA Recognition Number 020).
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Species detected					
C. coli		Yes		UNK	Yes
C. lari	No	No		No	
C. fetus	No	No		No	
Reading method					
Visual	Yes	Yes		Yes	
Spectrophotometric	No	YES		YES	
End point	Pos = visible pink-
red line Neg = no
line	POS = YELLOW COLOR
NEGATIVE = COLORLESS		POS = DEFINITE
YELLOW COLOR NEG =
COLORLESS VERY
FAINT YELLOW	
Calibrator	No	No		No	
Equipment	Not needed	General laboratory
semiautomated washer
(optional) General
laboratory
spectrophotometer
(optional)	General laboratory
semiautomated washer
(optional) General
laboratory
spectrophotometer
(optional) StatFax
microplate
incubator/shaker (optional)		
Antibody sources					
Capture	Mouse
monoclonal	Rabbit polyclonal	Mouse monoclonal		
Detector	Mouse
monoclonal	Rabbit polyclonal	Mouse monoclonal		
Sample Types					
Human stool
(direct)	Yes	Yes	Yes		
Broth culture	No	Yes	No		
Endpoint determinations					
Visible?	Yes – pink-red line	Yes – yellow color	Yes – yellow color		
Positive (dual
wavelength)	N/A	Yes ≥ 0.140	Yes ≥ 0.100		
Negative (dual
wavelength)	N/A	Yes < 0.100	Yes < 0.100		
Indeterminant
(dual wavelength)	N/A	Yes 0.100 to 0.139	None		

--- Page 5 ---
L. Test Principle:
ImmunoCard STAT! Campy is a lateral flow-based immunoassay for the direct detection
of Campylobacter antigen in stool. ImmunoCard STAT! Campy assay uses monoclonal
antibodies specific for an antigen common to Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter
coli. Stool sample is added to Sample Diluent buffer using the transfer pipette provided
with the kit. The diluted sample is added to the sample port of the device.
Campylobacter antigen in the diluted sample binds to the monoclonal antibody-colloidal
gold conjugate as the sample moves through the device. The Campylobacter capture
monoclonal antibody bound to the assay membrane at the Test position of the device
central window binds antigen-Campylobacter-antibody-colloidal gold complex and yields
a visible pink-red line. When no antigen is present, no complex is formed and no pink-
red line will appear at the Test position of the device central window. The control line
serves as the assay control by showing adequate flow of diluted sample through the test
device, improper assay execution, and or deterioration of test reagents. The control line
is a goat anti-mouse antibody bound at the Control position of the reading window. A
visible pink-red line at the Control position of the device central window should be
present each time a sample or control is tested. If no pink-red control line is seen,
adequate sample flow has not occurred and the test is considered invalid.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra-assay variability and inter-assay variability were assessed with a reference panel
prepared from moderate positive (n = 2), negative (n = 2), high negative (n = 3) and low
positive (n = 3) samples. High negative, low positive and moderate positive samples
were prepared by inoculating negative stool matrix with known quantities of C. jejuni. In
the case of low positive and high negative samples, the inoculum was added at
concentrations that were at, or just below, the assay Limit of Detection (LoD). Aliquots
of each panel were tested for five days, twice each day at three different test sites (Sites
A, B and C). At least two technologists performed testing at each site.
Results for each site are tabulated below:
5

--- Page 6 ---
6

--- Page 7 ---
These results suggest that the ImmunoCard STAT! Campy assay is reproducible when
used by different personnel within or between labs.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable – this is a qualitative test with no numerical output
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability
A stability study was performed using a bracketed matrix representing the
extreme conditions of storage. Studies were performed with preserved samples
collected in Cary-Blair medium. The table below summarizes the study
conditions:
7

--- Page 8 ---
No. Sample Sample Age Storage Temp. Storage Case
Type Time
1 Unpreserved Fresh sample Refrigerated (2-8 C) 0-2 hours Baseline sample type.
(0-48 hours old) for no more than 8 after Baseline sample age.
Frozen sample hours after preparation Baseline storage temperature.
(0-24 hours from collection of preserved Baseline storage time.
thaw) If banked sample, aliquot for
test result test below
immediately on
thawing.
2 Same as Same as above Refrigerated (2-8 C) Maximum 2- Worst-case sample storage time
above 8 C storage for the baseline sample at the
time plus 24 baseline temperature.
hours
96 hours
plus 24
hours (120
hours or 5
days)
3 Same as Same as above Upper limit of room Maximum Worst-case sample storage time
above temperature range room for the baseline sample at the
+ 2 C temperature worst-case limit of room
NT storage time temperature.
plus 24 Bracket not used in this study.
hours No room temperature storage
NT allowed.
4 Same as Same as above Conventional Conventional Worst-case frozen storage time
above freezer temperature freezer for the baseline sample under
(-16 to -28 C) storage time conditions of conventional
Track temperature plus 24 freezer storage.
during use. hours
2 months
plus 24
hours, verify
1 year
(interim time
point after 2
weeks plus
24 hours)
5 Same as Same as above Ultra low freezer Ultra low Best-case sample storage time
above temperature freezer for the baseline sample at the
(-66 to -84 C) storage time worst-case limit of ultra low
Track temperature plus 24 freezer temperature.
during use. hours
2 months
plus 24
hours, verify
1 year
(interim time
point after 2
weeks plus
24 hours)
The results showed no line for negative samples and a definite or weak line with positive
samples. Positive samples, including low positive sample, remained positive in all cases.
Negative samples, including high negative, remain negative in all cases. Sample
suitability was maintained when diluted samples were stored for up to 24 hours at
20-250 C or 2-80 C. To ensure best practices, the sponsor recommends storage of diluted
samples at 2-8 0 C only.
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
No.		Sample		Sample Age	Storage Temp.		Storage		Case
		Type					Time		
1	Unpreserved			Fresh sample
(0-48 hours old)
Frozen sample
(0-24 hours from
thaw)	Refrigerated (2-8 C)
for no more than 8
hours after
collection
If banked sample,
test result
immediately on
thawing.	0-2 hours
after
preparation
of preserved
aliquot for
test below			Baseline sample type.
Baseline sample age.
Baseline storage temperature.
Baseline storage time.
2	Same as
above			Same as above	Refrigerated (2-8 C)	Maximum 2-
8 C storage
time plus 24
hours
96 hours
plus 24
hours (120
hours or 5
days)			Worst-case sample storage time
for the baseline sample at the
baseline temperature.
3	Same as
above			Same as above	Upper limit of room
temperature range
+ 2 C
NT	Maximum
room
temperature
storage time
plus 24
hours
NT			Worst-case sample storage time
for the baseline sample at the
worst-case limit of room
temperature.
Bracket not used in this study.
No room temperature storage
allowed.
4	Same as
above			Same as above	Conventional
freezer temperature
(-16 to -28 C)
Track temperature
during use.	Conventional
freezer
storage time
plus 24
hours
2 months
plus 24
hours, verify
1 year
(interim time
point after 2
weeks plus
24 hours)			Worst-case frozen storage time
for the baseline sample under
conditions of conventional
freezer storage.
5	Same as
above			Same as above	Ultra low freezer
temperature
(-66 to -84 C)
Track temperature
during use.	Ultra low
freezer
storage time
plus 24
hours
2 months
plus 24
hours, verify
1 year
(interim time
point after 2
weeks plus
24 hours)			Best-case sample storage time
for the baseline sample at the
worst-case limit of ultra low
freezer temperature.

--- Page 9 ---
d. Detection limit:
Samples were prepared from negative, archival, unpreserved, semi-solid stool specimens.
The negative status of the samples was confirmed by the predicate method. Samples
were spiked with decreasing amounts C. coli or C. jejuni obtained from stocks prepared
to MacFarland Standard 4. Inoculated samples were tested immediately. The
concentration of organisms in each sample was as follows:
Organism C. jejuni Final organism concentration
Sample ID
Sample
2 dilutions below LoB 1.5x10"
1 -
Sample 2 -1 dilution below LoB 3.0x10"
Sample 3 -Target LoB 6.0 x 10"
Sample 4 -1 dilution above LoB 1.2 x 10
Sample 5 -2 dilutions above LoB 2.4 x 10
1
Organism C. coli
Sample ID Final organism concentration
Sample
2 dilutions below LoB 3.75 x 10"
1 -
Sample
1 dilution below LoB 7.50 x 10°
2 -
Sample 3 -Target LoB 1.50 x 10
Sample 4 -1 dilution above LoB 3.00 x 10
Sample 5 -2 dilutions above LoB 6.00 x 10
The assay LoB and LoD determined samples spiked with known levels of C. coli and
C. jejuni. Values were the same for semi-solid, liquid/watery or solid stool samples as
these samples are diluted prior to testing to deliver a uniform matrix to the test.
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference Testing
In this study, the sponsor added selected drugs, and other non-microbial substances that
might be present in stool samples from healthy persons or patients with signs and
symptoms of gastroenteritis, to three positive and three negative samples. They then
inoculated the samples with C. jejuni near the limit of detection (LoD) of the assay. The
sponsor affirms that the following substances at the specified saturated solvent/diluent
concentrations do not interfere with test results in the final concentrations listed: Barium
sulfate (5 mg/mL); fecal fat (equivalent to 2.65 mg stearic plus 1.3 mg palmitic acids per
mL), hemoglobin (as methemoglobin) (3.2 mg/mL), Imodium AD® (0.00667 mg/mL),
Kaopectate® (0.87 mg/mL), mucin (3.33 mg/mL), Mylanta® (4.2 mg/mL), Pepto-
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Organism C. jejuni
Sample ID			Final organism concentration
Sample
2 dilutions below LoB 1.5x10"
1 -
Sample 2 -1 dilution below LoB 3.0x10"
Sample 3 -Target LoB 6.0 x 10"
Sample 4 -1 dilution above LoB 1.2 x 10
Sample 5 -2 dilutions above LoB 2.4 x 10
1			
	Organism C. coli		Final organism concentration
	Sample ID		
Sample
2 dilutions below LoB 3.75 x 10"
1 -
Sample
1 dilution below LoB 7.50 x 10°
2 -
Sample 3 -Target LoB 1.50 x 10
Sample 4 -1 dilution above LoB 3.00 x 10
Sample 5 -2 dilutions above LoB 6.00 x 10			

[Table 2 on page 9]
Organism C. jejuni
Sample ID

--- Page 10 ---
Bismol® (0.87 mg/mL), Prilosec® (0.5 mg/mL), Tagamet® (0.5 mg/mL), TUMS® (0.5
mg/mL), urine (5% v/v), whole blood (5% v/v).
Cross-reactivity Study
Crossreactivity studies were performed with positive and negative stool specimens
inoculated with bacterial and fungal organisms to a final concentration of 1.1 x 108
CFU/mL and virus ranging from 1.3 x 104 to 3.1 x 106 TCID50/mL. None of the
following organisms in stool reacted with ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY:
Aeromonas hydrophila, Bacteroides fragilis, Campylobacter fetus, Candida albicans,
Citrobacter freundii, Clostridium difficile, Clostridium perfringens, Enterobacter
cloacae, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Escherichia
fergusonii, Escherichia hermannii, Helicobacter pylori, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Lactococcus lactis, Listeria monocytogenes, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius,
Plesiomonas shigelloides, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas
fluorescens, Salmonella Groups B-E, Serratia marcescens, Shigella boydii, Shigella
flexneri, Shigella sonnei, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Vibrio
parahaemolyticus, Yersinia enterocolitica, Adenovirus Types 40 and 41, Coxsackievirus,
Echovirus, and Rotavirus
Strain Reactivity Study
The sponsor tested the reactivity using various strains of C. jejuni and C. coli (as shown
in the table below). Each strain was spiked into a negative stool matrix. The negative
sample matrix was confirmed nonreactive with the predicate device. Strains were diluted
in phosphate-buffered saline to a MacFarland Standard #4. Ten μL of each organism was
spiked into 100 μL of stool matrix. The negative dilution control was prepared by
spiking the matrix with buffer instead of organism. The negative dilution control was
nonreactive when tested. Results showed that all strains were reactive.
Summary of Reactivity Study
Microorganism and ID # Final conc. of Reactive? Y/N
microorganism in (at dilution)
undiluted sample
C. jejuni
12081 1.1x107 CFU/mL Y
10940 1.1x107 CFU/mL Y
38106 1.1x107 CFU/mL Y
6951 1.1x107 CFU/mL Y
29411 1.1x107 CFU/mL Y
C. coli
53138 1.1 x108 CFU/mL Y
36994 1.1 x108 CFU/mL Y
17755 1.1 x108 CFU/mL Y
10956 1.1 x108 CFU/mL Y
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
Microorganism and ID #		Final conc. of		Reactive? Y/N
(at dilution)
		microorganism in		
		undiluted sample		
C. jejuni				
12081	1.1x107 CFU/mL			Y
10940	1.1x107 CFU/mL			Y
38106	1.1x107 CFU/mL			Y
6951	1.1x107 CFU/mL			Y
29411	1.1x107 CFU/mL			Y
C. coli				
53138	1.1 x108 CFU/mL			Y
36994	1.1 x108 CFU/mL			Y
17755	1.1 x108 CFU/mL			Y
10956	1.1 x108 CFU/mL			Y

[Table 2 on page 10]
Reactive? Y/N
(at dilution)

--- Page 11 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method Comparison with Predicate:
See Clinical Studies Section
b. Matrix comparison:
Specimen matrix interference has not been observed in this assay as samples are
significantly diluted before testing in Sample Diluent. For this reason, the
Positive and Negative Controls supplied as part of this assay are prepared in
matrices similar to the Sample Diluent. If control materials that are identical in
composition to test samples are preferred, the user can prepare these by diluting
known positive and negative specimens in Sample Diluent according to the
SPECIMEN PREPARATION section of the package insert.
1. Clinical Studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity
ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY was evaluated by three independent laboratories
located in different geographical regions of the United States. Four hundred and
twenty one qualified samples were tested. Of these samples 189 (45%) were
retrospective frozen samples. Fifty one percent of the samples (216/421) were
collected without a preservative. The remaining samples (205/421) were
collected in a Cary-Blair medium. Samples were collected from males (44%) and
females (52%). In the case of 4% of the patients, gender was not recorded. The
age groups of the patients from whom samples were collected ranged from one
month of age to 95 years. The sponsor compared the performance of their device
to bacterial culture. No differences in test performance were observed based on
patient age or gender.
11

--- Page 12 ---
12

--- Page 13 ---
Site 1 – Prospective versus Retrospective Samples
Site 2 – Prospective versus Retrospective Samples
Site 3 – Prospective versus Retrospective Samples
13

--- Page 14 ---
Combined Site Data- Prospective versus Retrospective Samples
14

--- Page 15 ---
b. Clinical Specificity
See 3a above
c. Other Clinical Supportive data
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected Values/Reference Range:
The performance of ImmunoCard STAT! CAMPY was evaluated during 2009 using
retrospective positive and negative samples collected during 2008 and prospective
positive and negative samples, which were collected in 2009. The samples were
collected from different geographic regions in the United States. The incidence of
positive samples was approximately 1.5% during the 2008 and approximately 1.2%
during the 2009 sample collection seasons. The incidence for an individual
laboratory may differ from this number since it is dependent on factors such as locale,
the time of year and occurrence of an outbreak (if applicable).
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
15