
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Review Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K091980
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. ACL TOP (k073377)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The modification: Adding an extra arm and hardware to interface with laboratory automation system
(LAS)
4. Comparison Information to applicant’s legally marketed predicate device including, labeling,
intended use, physical characteristics.
The difference: A Point-in-Space design solution is utilized where the patient sample remains under
the control of the laboratory automated system. For sample analysis, an aliquot is aspirated by the
ACL TOP 700 instrument and the primary container from the automation tract is not removed. The
instrument software is modified to interface with an interface module computer, which controls the
communications to the LAS system
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis. FMEA (Failure mode and effects
analysis) see section 15
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied. (See section 15)
c) A declaration of conformity (see Section 8) with design controls. The declaration of conformity
should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.