
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091914
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for blood glucose monitoring system
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bionostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
OMNIS Health Embrace Glucose Control Solution
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I (reserved)
3. Product code:
JJX, single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
OMNIS Health Embrace Glucose Control Solution is intended to assess the
performance of the OMNIS Health Embrace Blood Glucose test system. OMNIS
Health Embrace Glucose Control Solution is intended for use by healthcare
professionals and people with diabetes mellitus at home.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use, over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with the OMNIS Health Embrace Blood Glucose test system.
1

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
OMNIS Health Embrace Glucose Control Solution is a viscosity-adjusted,
aqueous liquid glucose control solution. OMNIS Health Embrace Glucose
Control Solution is intended for use to verify the performance of the OMNIS
Health Embrace Blood Glucose Test System at glucose levels representing
normal, fasting blood glucose and elevated glucose levels and is intended for use
by healthcare professionals and people with diabetes mellitus at home. The
product is packaged in plastic bottles with dropper tips for application of the
solution to test strips. The control has a red color to help users see the solution
while dispensing onto a test strip.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Omnis Health Embrace Control Solutions
2. Predicate K number(s):
k090043
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Device Embrace Control Solution
(k090043)
Similarities
Indications for use Verify performance of a Same
glucose monitoring system
Levels 2 (low and high) Same
Analyte Glucose Same
Target (mg/dL) 114 (low), 229 (high) Same
Matrix Aqueous Same
Color Red Same
Differences
Net Fill 4.0 mL 2.5 mL
Glucose (% w/v) 0.08% (low), 0.15% (high) 0.06% (low), 0.15% (high)
Container 6mL plastic vial 3 mL plastic vial
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• ISO 15197 – In vitro diagnostic test systems – requirements for blood-glucose
monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus. 1st edition.
May 1, 2003
• ISO 14971 – Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical
devices. 1st edition. June 22, 2009
• ISO 13485 – Medical Devices – quality management systems – requirements
for regulatory purposes. 2nd edition. July 15, 2003
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Item	Device		Embrace Control Solution	
			(k090043)	
Similarities				
Indications for use	Verify performance of a
glucose monitoring system	Same		
Levels	2 (low and high)	Same		
Analyte	Glucose	Same		
Target (mg/dL)	114 (low), 229 (high)	Same		
Matrix	Aqueous	Same		
Color	Red	Same		
Differences				
Net Fill	4.0 mL	2.5 mL		
Glucose (% w/v)	0.08% (low), 0.15% (high)	0.06% (low), 0.15% (high)		
Container	6mL plastic vial	3 mL plastic vial		

--- Page 3 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or
methods):
Value Assignment: A Reference Lot known to conform to the
performance specifications for the OMNIS Health Embrace Blood
Glucose test system is used to value assign new lots. Each new lot is
formulated gravimetrically to be within a specified range of the value of
the Reference Lot measured using the YSI 2300 analyzer.
Value assignment verification was performed using at least 2 OMNIS
Health Embrace Blood Glucose Meters, 3 lots of OMNIS Health Embrace
test strips and 3 lots of the proposed device. Value assignment range is
determined as the mean value of all measurements ± 20% of the mean
value. Value assignment was verified if at least 95% of all measurements
of the new lot of product were within the value assignment ranges printed
on the OMNIS Health Embrace Test Strips.
Stability: Stability characteristics of the OMNIS Health Embrace Glucose
Control Solution were determined using real-time studies. The product has
a closed-vial stability of 24 months when the product is stored at 2 – 30
ºC. Open-vial stability is 90 days when the product is stored at 2 – 30 ºC,
but should not exceed the printed expiration date.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The instructions provided to the user are as follow:
“The Embrace Control Solutions testing should provide results within the
expected range indicated on the Embrace Test Strip bottle.” Users are
instructed to contact customer support if control readings do not fall within the
acceptable range after reviewing the procedure and repeating the test.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
4