
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091460
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Control materials for glucose test systems
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
American Biological Technologies, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
AbT Glucose Control Solutions Levels 1, 2, 3
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX - Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (Assayed and Unassayed)
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
For in vitro diagnostic use (i.e. for external use only) by healthcare professionals
and in the home by people with diabetes mellitus to assess the performance of the
TRUEresult™ and TRUE2go™ Meters and TRUEtest™ Test Strips.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use (for external use only). For over the counter use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
TRUEresult and TRUE2go blood glucose test systems
I. Device Description:
The AbT Glucose Control Solutions consist of buffered aqueous solutions of D-
Glucose, a viscosity modifier, preservatives, red dye, and other non-reactive
ingredients. The devices are non-sterile, non-hazardous, and contain no human or
animal derived materials. The product is packaged in plastic dropper tipped bottles
for easy application to the test strip and contains a red coloration to aid the user to
visually confirm application of the control.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
TRUEtest Glucose Controls Levels 1, 2, 3
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k080641
3. Comparison with predicate:
Comparison Table
Item Device Predicate
Name AbT Glucose Control TRUEtest Glucose
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Comparison Table								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Name			AbT Glucose Control			TRUEtest Glucose		

--- Page 3 ---
Comparison Table
Item Device Predicate
Control
Number of Levels 3 3
Analyte Glucose Glucose
Container Plastic bottle with Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip dropper-tip
Color Red Red
Fill Volume 3.0 mL 3.6 mL
Matrix Water, D-glucose, Buffered aqueous
buffers, viscosity solution of D-glucose, a
enhancing agents, salts, viscosity modifier,
dyes, and preservatives preservatives, and other
non-reactive ingredients
Intended Use The AbT Glucose Control TRUEtest Glucose
Solution is intended for Control is a red liquid
use with TRUEresult™ containing a known
and TRUE2go™ blood amount of glucose. Use
glucose systems using Control with
TRUEtest™ test strips. It TRUE2go™ and
is used to check their TRUEresult™ Meters
performance. and TRUEtest™ Test
Strips.
Target Population Prescription and home Prescription and home
use use
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A2 Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement
Methods, Second Edition 08/2004
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Comparison Table								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
						Control		
Number of Levels			3			3		
Analyte			Glucose			Glucose		
Container			Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip			Plastic bottle with
dropper-tip		
Color			Red			Red		
Fill Volume			3.0 mL			3.6 mL		
Matrix			Water, D-glucose,
buffers, viscosity
enhancing agents, salts,
dyes, and preservatives			Buffered aqueous
solution of D-glucose, a
viscosity modifier,
preservatives, and other
non-reactive ingredients		
Intended Use			The AbT Glucose Control
Solution is intended for
use with TRUEresult™
and TRUE2go™ blood
glucose systems using
TRUEtest™ test strips. It
is used to check their
performance.			TRUEtest Glucose
Control is a red liquid
containing a known
amount of glucose. Use
Control with
TRUE2go™ and
TRUEresult™ Meters
and TRUEtest™ Test
Strips.		
Target Population			Prescription and home
use			Prescription and home
use		

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The D-glucose used in these controls is traceable to an in-house standard
prepared from NIST Standard Reference Material 917b. The control material
is analyzed on the sponsor’s reference analyzer and recovered values must fall
within acceptance criteria based on the target value of the NIST standard.
Expected Values
Glucose controls expected values were determined by repeat analyses using
the sponsor’s reference clinical chemistry analyzer. Pre-determined
acceptance criteria for glucose recovery must be met for each control lot.
Acceptable ranges for the glucose values were determined using a TRUEresult
monitor and three different lots of TRUEtest strips, ten replicates per strip lot,
over three days. Glucose control value ranges are lot dependent and are listed
in the control vial label for each lot. Test results must fall within the range
printed on the control vial. These ranges may differ from the range printed on
the test strip vial.
Stability
Stability characteristics of the AbT Glucose Control Solutions were
determined using accelerated shelf-life studies and open vial studies. An
unopened shelf-life of 24 months is expected at the recommended storage
temperature of 36°F to 86°F. Open vial stability of 90 days was demonstrated
when controls were stored at room temperature.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5