
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091123
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS)
D. Type of Test:
Calibration verification material for the ADVIA® Centaur Systems DHEAS assay
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ADVIA® Centaur DHEAS Master Curve Materials
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660 Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I (reserved)
3. Product code:
JJX, Single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ADVIA Centaur (DHEAS) Master Curve Materials are for in vitro diagnostic
use in the verification of calibration and reportable range in the ADVIA Centaur
Systems Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) assay.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use; For Prescription Use Only; To be used with the
ADVIA Centaur Systems DHEAS assay; Not to be used as routine quality control
material or as calibration material
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur (DHEAS) Master Curve Materials (MCM) are 5 levels of
varying concentrations of DHEAS in delipidated, steroid stripped, human
defribrinated plasma with preservative. The MCM have expected values (lot specific)
of approximately 0, 60, 300, 900 and 1500 μg/dL. The MCM (1.0 mL per vial) are
liquid and ready to use.
All human source materials used in the preparation of the proposed device were
tested using FDA-approved methods and found to be non-reactive for hepatitis B
surface antigen (HBsAg), antibody to hepatitis C (HCV), and antibody to HIV-1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Maine Standards Company, VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test
Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k062501
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Device Predicate (k062501)
Similarities
For in vitro diagnostic use in the
quantitative determination of
For in vitro diagnostic use in the linearity, calibration verification
verification of calibration and and verification of reportable
reportable range in the ADVIA range in chemistry systems for
Intended use
Centaur Systems the following analytes:
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate Triiodothyronine (T3),
(DHEAS) assay. Thyroxine (T4), human Thyroid
Stimulating Hormone (TSH),
and Cortisol.
Form Liquid same
Differences
Analytes DHEAS T3, T4, TSH and Cortisol
Matrix Human plasma Human serum
Storage 2 to 8 °C -10 to -20 °C
Unopened—until expiration date on
Unopened—until expiration
Stability the vial label
date on storage container
Opened—60 days
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Item			Device			Predicate (k062501)	
	Similarities							
Intended use			For in vitro diagnostic use in the
verification of calibration and
reportable range in the ADVIA
Centaur Systems
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate
(DHEAS) assay.			For in vitro diagnostic use in the
quantitative determination of
linearity, calibration verification
and verification of reportable
range in chemistry systems for
the following analytes:
Triiodothyronine (T3),
Thyroxine (T4), human Thyroid
Stimulating Hormone (TSH),
and Cortisol.		
Form			Liquid			same		
	Differences							
Analytes			DHEAS			T3, T4, TSH and Cortisol		
Matrix			Human plasma			Human serum		
Storage			2 to 8 °C			-10 to -20 °C		
Stability			Unopened—until expiration date on
the vial label
Opened—60 days			Unopened—until expiration
date on storage container		

--- Page 3 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: The ADVIA Centaur DHEAS Master Curve Material are
traceable to an internal standard manufactured using purified DHEAS.
Value assignment: Each of the five MCM levels is value assigned using one
ADVIA Centaur analyzer, one lot of calibrators and one lot of the ADVIA
Centaur DHEAS reagent. At least 3 vials are assayed for each level. MCM 1
is assayed in replicates of 10 on 2 separate runs. For MCM 2 through 5, a
“nested test” protocol was used where the samples are assayed with
alternating samples of the lot to be value assigned “test lot” and the reference
lot used to confirm value assignment. Twenty replicates of the test lot and 20
replicates of the reference lot are assayed. The target values are given in the
table below:
MCM Level Concentration (μg/dL)
MCM 1 0
MCM 2 60
MCM 3 300
MCM 4 900
MCM 5 1500
Stability: The unopened stability of the ADVIA Centaur DHEAS MCM was
determined using accelerated studies and real-time studies. The sponsor
currently has real-time data supporting 108 weeks of closed vial stability
when the product is stored at 2 to 8 oC. The sponsor will claim 18 months of
unopened shelf life at 2 to 8 oC.
The open vial stability was determined using real-time studies. The sponsor
currently has data supporting 9 weeks of open-vial stability when the product
is stored at 2 to 8 oC. The sponsor will claim 60 days of open vial stability at
2 to 8 oC
The sponsor presented data for the in-use stability of the product. The data
supports the claim that the ADVIA Centaur DHEAS MCM are stable up to 8
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	MCM Level			Concentration (μg/dL)	
MCM 1			0		
MCM 2			60		
MCM 3			300		
MCM 4			900		
MCM 5			1500		

--- Page 4 ---
hours when stored at 20 to 25 °C. The sponsor will claim 8 hours of in-use
stability at 20 to 25 °C.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive da ta (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Assigned values for the ADVIA Centaur DHEAS MCM are provided in the
DHEAS lot specific target value sheet.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4