
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091296
B. Purpose for Submission:
This submission is for a modification to a previously cleared device (k070559). This
glucose meter accessory is intended to transmit data to compatible access points such
as a personal computer or cellular phone with Bluetooth capability.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Manufacturer: Polymap Wireless, LLC.
Instrument Names: Polytel GMA models PWR-08-06, PWR-08-07, and PWR-08-09
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Not applicable.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Polytel PWR-08-06 GMA is a battery-powered, plug-in accessory to the
Lifescan OneTouch Ultra,OneTouch Ultra 2, OneTouch UltraMini, and
OneTouch Select Blood Glucose Monitors. The Polytel PWR-08-07 GMA is a
battery-powered, plug-in accessory to the Bayer Contour Blood Glucose
Monitors. The Polytel PWR-08-09 GMA is a battery-powered, plug-in accessory
to the Abbott FreeStyle Freedom Lite and FreeStyle Lite Blood Glucose
Monitors. Each of these devices acts as a remote unit to transmit data from the
meter to a compatible access point, such as a Nokia Model N73 cell phone. The
GMA plugs into a port on the glucose meter. In the case of the PWR-08-06, when
a glucose reading is taken and the strip withdrawn from the meter, unit turns on
automatically, accepts the data, and transmits it wirelessly to the compatible
Access Point. The Access Point then sends the encrypted data via cell or land
telephone lines to a computer server. Due to the electrical design of the Bayer
and Abbott glucose meters, both the PWR-08-07 and PWR-08-09 require the user
pressing a button to initiate data transmission.
The access point can be a compatible cell phone, personal computer, or other
device having Bluetooth capability. This allows glucose readings to be monitored
from a remote location. The glucose readings transmitted by the Polytel glucose
accessory are intended to be used for monitoring and historical trending. Clinical
judgment and experience are required to check and interpret the information
delivered. The unit does not transmit any alarms.
The device hardware platform is a Cambridge Silicon Radio BlueCore4-Ext radio
chip with 1MB of flash memory.
1

--- Page 2 ---
The GMA will be sold both through approved groups who can offer service
support and OTC. It will be advertised to physicians, in a variety of publications,
and on the Polymap website which will direct interested users to contact one of
the approved support groups that Polymap has identified. Users may contact
Polymap directly, or go to the Polymap website. A support technician from one of
the approved groups will contact the user, answer questions about the GMA,
validate that it works properly with the user's particular access point, and validate
accurate data transmission to the monitoring site.
2. Principles of Operation:
Not applicable.
3. Modes of Operation:
Transmits data over a wireless Bluetooth link from a Blood Glucose Monitor to a
compatible server.
4. Specimen Identification:
Glucose meter generated – unique unit ID
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable.
6. Calibration:
Not applicable.
7. Quality Control:
Not applicable.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1345
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
NBW
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
2

--- Page 3 ---
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Polytel GMA (models PWR-08-06, PWR-08-07, and PWR-08-09) are remote
communications link devices intended to be used to wirelessly transmit glucose
meter readings from a compatible Blood Glucose Monitor to a compatible cellular
phone, such as the Nokia N73 or access point, such as the Polytel APT. The
receiving device, in turn, sends the readings to the healthcare provider in another
location. The device does not send any real-time alarms. Clinical judgment and
experience are required to check and interpret the information delivered.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription and over-the-counter use.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
k061328 – eSan, Ltd. Think Plus (t+) diabetes management system
k070559 – Polymap Wireless LLC Polymap PWR-08-03
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device eSan Predicate PWR-08-03
Predicate
Users Patient & Patient & Patient &
Healthcare provider Healthcare Healthcare
provider provider
Site of use In the home In the home In the home
System Transmitting device Transmitting Transmitting
description that sends data from device that sends device that sends
a glucose meter to data from a data from a
an access point glucose meter to glucose meter to
an access point an access point
Connection Wired connection Wired connection Wired connection
between glucometer between between
and device. glucometer and glucometer and
Wireless device. Wireless device. Wireless
connection between connection connection
glucometer and between between
access point glucometer and glucometer and
access point access point
Monitoring Blood Glucose Blood Glucose Blood Glucose
Devices Meter Meter Meter
Power Battery Battery Battery
Alarms None None None
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item	Device	eSan Predicate	PWR-08-03
Predicate	
Users	Patient &
Healthcare provider	Patient &
Healthcare
provider	Patient &
Healthcare
provider	
Site of use	In the home	In the home	In the home	
System
description	Transmitting device
that sends data from
a glucose meter to
an access point	Transmitting
device that sends
data from a
glucose meter to
an access point	Transmitting
device that sends
data from a
glucose meter to
an access point	
Connection	Wired connection
between glucometer
and device.
Wireless
connection between
glucometer and
access point	Wired connection
between
glucometer and
device. Wireless
connection
between
glucometer and
access point	Wired connection
between
glucometer and
device. Wireless
connection
between
glucometer and
access point	
Monitoring
Devices	Blood Glucose
Meter	Blood Glucose
Meter	Blood Glucose
Meter	
Power	Battery	Battery	Battery	
Alarms	None	None	None	

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device eSan Predicate PWR-08-03
Predicate
Intended Transmit data Transmit data Transmit data
Use/indications between a between between a
monitoring device monitoring monitoring device
and enabled cell devices and and enabled cell
phone or other enabled cell phone or other
compatible device phone compatible device
Prescription/OTC Prescription/OTC OTC Prescription
Sold through
approved groups
who set up the
system
Data Residential Cellular Residential
Transmission telephone lines or Connections telephone lines or
cellular cellular
connections connections
Patient PWR-08-06: None Press button to None
interactions PWR-08-07, PWR- start the data
08-09: press button transmission
to start
transmission
Wireless link Class II Bluetooth Class II Class I Bluetooth
radio Bluetooth radio radio
Storage Fits inside original Not addressed Fits inside original
zippered case zippered case
Range 10 meters 10 Meters 100 Meters
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• IEC 60601-1, Medical Electrical Equipment - Part 1: General Requirements for
Safety; Safety Requirements for Medical Electrical Systems, 2004
• IEC 6060 1-1-2, Medical Electrical Equipment - Part 1-2: General Requirements for
Safety; Electromagnetic Compatibility -- Requirements and Tests, 2005
• IS0 14971:2000, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical
devices
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not applicable.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences					
Item	Device	eSan Predicate		PWR-08-03	
				Predicate	
Intended
Use/indications	Transmit data
between a
monitoring device
and enabled cell
phone or other
compatible device	Transmit data
between
monitoring
devices and
enabled cell
phone	Transmit data
between a
monitoring device
and enabled cell
phone or other
compatible device		
Prescription/OTC	Prescription/OTC	OTC	Prescription
Sold through
approved groups
who set up the
system		
Data
Transmission	Residential
telephone lines or
cellular
connections	Cellular
Connections	Residential
telephone lines or
cellular
connections		
Patient
interactions	PWR-08-06: None
PWR-08-07, PWR-
08-09: press button
to start
transmission	Press button to
start the data
transmission	None		
Wireless link	Class II Bluetooth
radio	Class II
Bluetooth radio	Class I Bluetooth
radio		
Storage	Fits inside original
zippered case	Not addressed	Fits inside original
zippered case		
Range	10 meters	10 Meters	100 Meters		

--- Page 5 ---
c. Linearity:
Not applicable.
d. Carryover:
Not applicable.
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
A user study was performed and found to be acceptable under k070559. A new
user study is not required under this submission because the modifications made
to the device are not expected to affect user functions.
Reading level analyses were performed for the user manuals. All are below an 8th
grade level.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5