
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k091539
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of synovial fluid
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Iris Diagnostics Division of Iris International, Inc., iQ 200® Urine Analyzer Body
Fluids Module
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative cell count, red blood cells (RBC) and nucleated cells (NUCL)
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
iQ 200® Urine Analyzer Body Fluids Module is an additional use for the iQ
200® Urine Analyzer. It is used by an appropriately trained laboratory user to
examine and count red blood cells and nucleated cells in synovial fluid and is an
added body fluid type to the previously cleared iQ 200 Urine analyzer Body
Fluids module cerebrospinal and serous fluids.
iQ 200® Urine Analyzer Body Fluids Module automates body fluid handling,
capturing particle images in a manner very similar to that of the Urinalysis
Application.
2. Principles of Operation:
Hyaluronidase is added to the specimen, mixed and incubated. Two aliquots from
each body fluid specimen are prepared. One aliquot is diluted in normal saline to
provide a concentration in the linear range of the instrument. The second aliquot
is treated with a lysing reagent to allow unambiguous identification of WBC and
other nucleated cells by eliminating RBC confusion. Particle images are captured
and saved electronically as the sample flows past a microscope objective at a high
speed, electronically concentrating particles. Particle images are then ordered by
size into assigned categories on a video display. An appropriately trained
laboratory user may change machine assignments, after which particle
concentrations are computed and reported.
3. Modes of Operation:
Samples are automatically processed and imaged but an appropriately trained
laboratory user must classify cell images.
4. Specimen Identification:
Barcode labeled specimen tubes
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Synovial specimens should be collected using K EDTA as an anti-coagulant. The
2
only tubes recommended for use with the iQ Body Fluids Module are 10 mL
plastic conical bottom tubes supplied by Iris Diagnostics. Two aliquots of each
specimen are created. One aliquot is lysed and compared to the aliquot that was
not lysed.
6. Calibration:
IRIS iQ Calibrator is used to calibrate the system monthly.
1

--- Page 2 ---
7. Quality Control:
IRIS iQ Positive Control, iQ Negative Control, and iQ Focus are used as quality
control material. The Body Fluids Module allows for two additional controls
every 24 hours (when body fluids analyses are performed): a reagent background
check (performed weekly) ensuring that the process reagents have not been
contaminated and two levels of positive control with defined values to confirm
system accuracy. These controls are run with two tubes, just as you would run a
patient specimen.
8. Software:
The software used is for operating the system. The software documentation for
this module consists of a Hazard Analysis, summary of software development
design, compliance and validation process, and system validation. Documentation
conforms to the FDA software documentation guideline.
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes __X___ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5200, Automated cell counter
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
GKL, Counter, Cell, Automated (Particle Counter)
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Intended Use and Indication(s) for Use:
The iQ®200 Urine Analyzer Body Fluids Module is an in-vitro diagnostic device
used by an appropriately trained laboratory user to examine and count red blood
cells and nucleated cells in cerebrospinal fluid, serous fluids and synovial fluid.
This module is a capability added to the iQ®200 Urine Analyzer.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Sysmex® XT-4000i, k091313
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body Sysmex® XT-4000i
Fluids Module (with Synovial K091313
Fluid)
Intended Use The iQ®200 Urine Analyzer Body The Sysmex XT-4000i is a quantitative
Fluids Module is an in-vitro multi-parameter automated hematology
diagnostic device used by an analyzer intended for in vitro diagnostic
appropriately trained laboratory use in screening patient populations found
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities				
Item		iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body		Sysmex® XT-4000i
K091313
		Fluids Module (with Synovial		
		Fluid)		
Intended Use	The iQ®200 Urine Analyzer Body
Fluids Module is an in-vitro
diagnostic device used by an
appropriately trained laboratory			The Sysmex XT-4000i is a quantitative
multi-parameter automated hematology
analyzer intended for in vitro diagnostic
use in screening patient populations found

[Table 2 on page 2]
Sysmex® XT-4000i
K091313

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body Sysmex® XT-4000i
Fluids Module (with Synovial K091313
Fluid)
user to examine and count red and in clinical laboratories. The XT-4000i
white blood cells and other classifies and enumerates various
nucleated cells in cerebrospinal parameters for whole blood and has a
fluid, serous fluids and synovial Body Fluid- mode for body fluids. The
fluid. This module is a capability Body Fluid mode enumerates the WBC-
added to the iQ®200 Urine BF, RBC-BF, MN%/#, PMN%/# and TC-
Analyzer, a cleared urinalysis BF# parameters in cerebrospinal fluids
instrument (CSF), serous fluids (peritoneal, pleural)
and synovial fluids.
Specimen Cerebrospinal fluid, serous fluids Whole blood, cerebrospinal fluid, serous
Types and synovial fluid fluids and synovial fluid
Specimen Synovial specimens should be Same.
Collection collected using K EDTA as an anti-
2
coagulant.
Parameters Enumerates red blood cells, white Enumerates the WBC-BF, RBC-BF,
Tested blood cells and nucleated cells in MN%/#, PMN%/# and TC-BF#
synovial fluid. parameters in CSF, serous fluids and
synovial fluids.
Differences
Item iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body Fluids Sysmex® XT-4000i
Module (with Synovial Fluid) K091313
Methodology Hyaluronidase treated specimen divided Performs hematology according to
into two aliquots: one diluted in normal the Hydro Dynamic Focusing (DC
saline to provide a concentration in the Detection), flow cytometry method
linear range of the instrument and the (using a semiconductor laser), and
second aliquot treated with a lysing agent SLS-hemoglobin laser).
to allow unambiguous identification of
WBC and other nucleated cells by
eliminating RBC. Particle images are
captured and saved electronically as the
sample flows past a microscope objective
at a high speed, electronically
concentrating particles. Particle images
are then ordered by size into assigned
categories on a video display. A trained
user could change machine assignments,
after which particle concentrations are
recomputed and reported
Reagents / Body Fluids specific consumables: CELLPACKTM (Diluent)
Consumables - Hyaluronidase (not supplied by Iris STROMATOLYSERTM- FB and,
Diagnostics) STROMATOLYSER-4DLTM
- iQ® Body Fluids Control –Two levels (Lyse)
- iQ® Body Fluids Lysing Reagent STROMATOLYSER- 4DSTM
(Stain)
SULFOLYSER (Lyse)
RET-SEARCH II (Diluent)
RET-SEARCH (Stain)
Calibrator / - iQ® Calibrator Pack c-Check (XE) - 3 Levels
Quality - iQ® Control/Focus Set
Control - iQ® Body Fluids Control – Two levels Calibrator (X Cal)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item		iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body		Sysmex® XT-4000i
K091313
		Fluids Module (with Synovial		
		Fluid)		
	user to examine and count red and
white blood cells and other
nucleated cells in cerebrospinal
fluid, serous fluids and synovial
fluid. This module is a capability
added to the iQ®200 Urine
Analyzer, a cleared urinalysis
instrument			in clinical laboratories. The XT-4000i
classifies and enumerates various
parameters for whole blood and has a
Body Fluid- mode for body fluids. The
Body Fluid mode enumerates the WBC-
BF, RBC-BF, MN%/#, PMN%/# and TC-
BF# parameters in cerebrospinal fluids
(CSF), serous fluids (peritoneal, pleural)
and synovial fluids.
Specimen
Types	Cerebrospinal fluid, serous fluids
and synovial fluid			Whole blood, cerebrospinal fluid, serous
fluids and synovial fluid
Specimen
Collection	Synovial specimens should be
collected using K EDTA as an anti-
2
coagulant.			Same.
Parameters
Tested	Enumerates red blood cells, white
blood cells and nucleated cells in
synovial fluid.			Enumerates the WBC-BF, RBC-BF,
MN%/#, PMN%/# and TC-BF#
parameters in CSF, serous fluids and
synovial fluids.

[Table 2 on page 3]
Sysmex® XT-4000i
K091313

[Table 3 on page 3]
Differences						
Item		iQ® 200 Urine Analyzer Body Fluids			Sysmex® XT-4000i	
		Module (with Synovial Fluid)			K091313	
Methodology	Hyaluronidase treated specimen divided
into two aliquots: one diluted in normal
saline to provide a concentration in the
linear range of the instrument and the
second aliquot treated with a lysing agent
to allow unambiguous identification of
WBC and other nucleated cells by
eliminating RBC. Particle images are
captured and saved electronically as the
sample flows past a microscope objective
at a high speed, electronically
concentrating particles. Particle images
are then ordered by size into assigned
categories on a video display. A trained
user could change machine assignments,
after which particle concentrations are
recomputed and reported			Performs hematology according to
the Hydro Dynamic Focusing (DC
Detection), flow cytometry method
(using a semiconductor laser), and
SLS-hemoglobin laser).		
Reagents /
Consumables	Body Fluids specific consumables: CELLPACKTM (Diluent)
- Hyaluronidase (not supplied by Iris STROMATOLYSERTM- FB and,
Diagnostics) STROMATOLYSER-4DLTM
- iQ® Body Fluids Control –Two levels (Lyse)
- iQ® Body Fluids Lysing Reagent STROMATOLYSER- 4DSTM
(Stain)
SULFOLYSER (Lyse)
RET-SEARCH II (Diluent)
RET-SEARCH (Stain)					
Calibrator /
Quality
Control	- iQ® Calibrator Pack
- iQ® Control/Focus Set
- iQ® Body Fluids Control – Two levels			c-Check (XE) - 3 Levels
Calibrator (X Cal)		

--- Page 4 ---
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI H56-A Body Fluid Analysis for cellular composition; Approved guideline
CLSI EP9-A2 Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples,
Approved Standard-Second Edition
CLSI EP6-A Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures,
Approved Guideline
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Comparison studies were performed at two US sites. The patient samples
represent females and males ages 21 through 93 from doctors’ offices,
reference laboratories, hospitals, rheumatoid disease clinics and urgent care
facilities. Fifty-five (55) synovial fluid specimens out of 76 samples collected had
valid duplicates and were used to calculate the Deming regression for RBC and
NUCL.
The regression was calculated on the average of the duplicates where the
hemacytometer count is the reference compared to the iQ 200 BF module. The
iQ200 determination of RBC and WBC in synovial fluid is equivalent to that
determined by the hemacytometer manual method. Equivalence is defined as
statistically equivalent or better accuracy and precision as shown by Deming
first order regression coefficients R2 > 0.95 and P-value <0.05. Regression
analyses are as follows:
Summary of the Deming regression comparison between iQ 200 Body Fluids
Module for synovial fluid and the hemacytometer manual counts:
Cell Number of R2 Intercept p-Value Slope
samples
RBC 55 0.9909 9.15 0.9916 0.9972
NUCL 55 0.9794 -79.08 0.8299 0.9435
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
A precision study was performed on the hemacytometer count and the iQ 200
BF count as a plot of the difference of the two counts versus the average of the
two counts for both RBC and NUCL for 61 specimens. The results indicated
that the differences of the duplicates between the two devices are not
significantly different as it relates to the two methods.
c. Linearity:
A linearity study was performed by preparing an evenly distributed sequence
of seven pooled dilutions ranging from 0/μL to 83,500/μL for RBC to
61,125/μL for Nucleated Cells. Two replicates for each pool dilutions were
processed independently. The test was conducted following the CLSI EP6A
protocol. The linearity results are as follows:
RBC RANGE reported: 0 - 83,500/uL, NUCL RANGE reported: 0 -
61,125/uL.
d. Carryover:
Carryover was evaluated by assaying a synovial fluid sample with high cell
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Cell	Number of
samples	R2	Intercept	p-Value	Slope
RBC	55	0.9909	9.15	0.9916	0.9972
NUCL	55	0.9794	-79.08	0.8299	0.9435

--- Page 5 ---
count three consecutive times followed immediately by testing a synovial
fluid in which cells had been removed (low count) three consecutive times.
The results of the carryover study were within manufacturer’s specification
for carryover of ≤ 0.5%.
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Sample Stability:
Twelve specimens had adequate volume to use for a stability study. Time zero
(T ) arrival of the specimen in the laboratory and Time 24 Hours later (T ) were
0 24
used to conduct the study. Sufficient sample volume was not available to analyze
specimens at any other time point between T and T . Seven of the 12 specimens
o 24
had enough volume to analyze the samples in duplicate for both the T and T
0 24
analyses. Samples were stored at 2 – 8°C. Results were compared for the RBC
count and for the NUCL count by evaluating the statistical interval around the
measurement at 95% CI. Results of this study demonstrate that synovial fluid
specimens are stable for at least 24 hours when stored at 2 – 8°C.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5