
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091975
B. Purpose for Submission:
The submission is for obtaining clearance for The Integrated Laboratory Automation
(ILAS) Solution an accessory to clinical laboratory analyzers such as Vitros 250
automated chemistry analyzer. The submission uses the Vitros 250 automated
chemistry analyzer to demonstrate ILAS barcode sample ID transmission to analyzer
and analytical equivalence to manual sample introduction verses automated sample
introduction on the analyzer. The Vitros 250 automated chemistry analyzer was
cleared with glucose under K922072.
C. Measurand:
Glucose
D. Type of Test:
Enzymatic
E. Applicant:
Integrated Laboratory Automation Solutions, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Integrated Laboratory Automation Solution (ILAS)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
Regulation Name Class
21CFR Sec.- 862.1345: Glucose test system. 2
21CFR Sec.- 862.2160: Discrete photometric chemistry analyzer for clinical use. 1
2. Product code:
Product code Device Name
CGA GLUCOSE OXIDASE, GLUCOSE
JJE ANALYZER, CHEMISTRY (PHOTOMETRIC, DISCRETE), FOR CLINICAL USE
3. Panel:
CH (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):

[Table 1 on page 1]
Regulation	Name	Class
21CFR Sec.- 862.1345:	Glucose test system.	2
21CFR Sec.- 862.2160:	Discrete photometric chemistry analyzer for clinical use.	1

[Table 2 on page 1]
Product code	Device Name
CGA	GLUCOSE OXIDASE, GLUCOSE
JJE	ANALYZER, CHEMISTRY (PHOTOMETRIC, DISCRETE), FOR CLINICAL USE

--- Page 2 ---
See Indications(s) for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Integrated Laboratory Automation Solution (ILAS) is designed to transport
clinical patient samples to clinical laboratory analyzers that perform the actual
clinical tests. The ILAS system receives downloads from the Laboratory
Information System (LIS) with the patient ID and test orders to be performed by
the laboratory analyzer. The patient specimens are loaded onto the ILAS and bar
codes are read. The bar codes are read at each analyzer station to determine if
tests are to be run and if so the specimen is switched to a side track supplying the
analyzer with the specimen.
The ILAS is an accessory to the Vitros 250 automated chemistry analyzer and
other similar chemistry automated clinical analyzers. Automated clinical
analyzers utilize various methods and technologies for the determination of
numerous analytes, such as Glucose and other measurands that may be adaptable
to each integrated analyzer.
Glucose on the ILAS system is for the quantitative in vitro diagnostic
measurement of Glucose in plasma. Glucose measurements are used in the
diagnosis and treatment of carbohydrate metabolism disorders including diabetes
mellitus, neonatal hypoglycemia, and idiopathic hypoglycemia, and of pancreatic
islet cell carcinoma.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Vitros 250 automated chemistry analyzer.
I. Device Description:
The automation system (ILAS) is designed to transport clinical patient specimens
(blood and urine) to the laboratory analyzers that perform the actual clinical tests.
The ILAS system receives downloads from the Laboratory Information System (LIS)
with the patient ID and menu of tests to be performed by the laboratory analyzers.
The patients specimens are loaded onto the ILAS and bar codes are read. The bar
codes are read at each laboratory analyzer station to determine whether the specimen
should be directed to that specific analyzer. If a test is to be run on the analyzer, the
specimen is switched to a side track supplying the testing analyzer with clinical
specimens. All reporting of clinical specimen test results are transmitted from the
analyzer to the LIS and the ILAS software is not involved in test results reporting.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Vitros 250 automated chemistry analyzer
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K922072
2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Integrated Laboratory Analyzer Ex.: Lab-Interlink Same or Different
Automation Solution (ILAS) Ortho Clinical AWCC Software
Diagnostics K010500
Vitros 250 AT
Analyzers
(K922072)
IFU The Integrated Laboratory The Ortho The AWCC software is an Same
Automation Solution (ILAS) is Clinical accessory to analyzer
designed to transport clinical Diagnostics instruments, including for
patient samples to clinical Vitros 250 AT example, discrete
laboratory analyzers that Automated photometric chemistry
perform the actual clinical tests. Analyzer is used analyzers, coagulation timers,
The ILAS system receives for in vitro fluorometers, and/or cell
downloads from the Laboratory diagnostic use. counters. These analyzers are
Information System (LIS) with intended for use in
the patient ID and test orders to conjunction with certain
be performed by the laboratory materials to measure a variety
analyzer. The patient specimens of analytes, to determine the
are loaded onto the ILAS and onset of clot formation for I
bar codes are read. The bar vitro coagulation studies, to
codes are read at each analyzer identify and classify one or
station to determine if tests are more of the formed elements
to be run and if so the specimen of the blood, and/or other
is switched to a side track indications for which third
supplying the analyzer with the arty analyzers are legally
specimen. marketed.
The ILAS is an accessory to the
Vitros 250 automated chemistry
analyzer and other similar
chemistry automated clinical
analyzers. Automated clinical
analyzers utilize various methods
and technologies for the
determination of numerous
analytes, such as Glucose and
other measurands that may be
adaptable to each integrated
analyzer.
Glucose on the ILAS system is
for the quantitative in vitro
diagnostic measurement of
Glucose in plasma. Glucose
measurements are used in the
diagnosis and treatment of
carbohydrate metabolism
disorders including diabetes
mellitus, neonatal hypoglycemia,
and idiopathic hypoglycemia,
and of pancreatic islet cell
carcinoma.
Software Yes Yes Yes Same
Driven
3 of 6

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item	Integrated Laboratory
Automation Solution (ILAS)	Analyzer Ex.:
Ortho Clinical
Diagnostics
Vitros 250 AT
Analyzers
(K922072)	Lab-Interlink
AWCC Software
K010500	Same or Different
IFU	The Integrated Laboratory
Automation Solution (ILAS) is
designed to transport clinical
patient samples to clinical
laboratory analyzers that
perform the actual clinical tests.
The ILAS system receives
downloads from the Laboratory
Information System (LIS) with
the patient ID and test orders to
be performed by the laboratory
analyzer. The patient specimens
are loaded onto the ILAS and
bar codes are read. The bar
codes are read at each analyzer
station to determine if tests are
to be run and if so the specimen
is switched to a side track
supplying the analyzer with the
specimen.
The ILAS is an accessory to the
Vitros 250 automated chemistry
analyzer and other similar
chemistry automated clinical
analyzers. Automated clinical
analyzers utilize various methods
and technologies for the
determination of numerous
analytes, such as Glucose and
other measurands that may be
adaptable to each integrated
analyzer.
Glucose on the ILAS system is
for the quantitative in vitro
diagnostic measurement of
Glucose in plasma. Glucose
measurements are used in the
diagnosis and treatment of
carbohydrate metabolism
disorders including diabetes
mellitus, neonatal hypoglycemia,
and idiopathic hypoglycemia,
and of pancreatic islet cell
carcinoma.	The Ortho
Clinical
Diagnostics
Vitros 250 AT
Automated
Analyzer is used
for in vitro
diagnostic use.	The AWCC software is an
accessory to analyzer
instruments, including for
example, discrete
photometric chemistry
analyzers, coagulation timers,
fluorometers, and/or cell
counters. These analyzers are
intended for use in
conjunction with certain
materials to measure a variety
of analytes, to determine the
onset of clot formation for I
vitro coagulation studies, to
identify and classify one or
more of the formed elements
of the blood, and/or other
indications for which third
arty analyzers are legally
marketed.	Same
Software
Driven	Yes	Yes	Yes	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Item Integrated Laboratory Analyzer Ex.: Lab-Interlink Same or Different
Automation Solution (ILAS) Ortho Clinical AWCC Software
Diagnostics K010500
Vitros 250 AT
Analyzers
(K922072)
Tube types 16 x 100 mm, 13 x 100, and 13 x 16 x 100 mm, 13 16 x 100 mm, 13 x 100, and Same
75 mm x 100, and 13 x 13 x 75 mm
75 mm
Power Depends on number of modules Greater power consumption, Different
require- on the conveyor system. exact amount is information Less power is
ments Typically, for a conveyor 100 is no longer available. required. This
feet in length the power required does not affect
is less than 10 amps at 115 VAC Safety and
Efficacy in a
negative manner.
Conveyor Approximately 28-30 n/a Approximately 20-25 Minor difference
speed feet/minute feet/minute
Conveyor Approximately 2200 carriers/ n/a Approximately 300-400/hour Minor Difference
capacity hour
Sample Direct identification of sample n/a Indirect identification by bar Different:
Identificati by single bar code on sample.. code on tube and a different Direct ID is
on bar code on carrier, prone much more
sample mix-ups. Bar code on reliable. This
tube must be mapped to bar difference does
code on carrier. Should the not impact Safety
tube be removed by tech and Effectiveness
there is a good chance of in a negative
sample misidentification. manner.
Entering Sample tube is simply placed in n/a Must remove sample tray Different:
samples on carrier at loading station. No from robot, scan bar code on This does not
conveyor manual entry required. tray, manually enter tube size, affect Safety and
Automated bar code read and must place in assigned tray efficacy since the
download of pending tests from location, place tray back in bar code is
LIS robot. Presents bottleneck at automatically
sample loading area. read for the tests.
No manual entry
is required.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None Referenced
L. Test Principle:
Enzymatic
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Provided in k922072
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Provided in k922072
4 of 6

[Table 1 on page 4]
Item	Integrated Laboratory
Automation Solution (ILAS)	Analyzer Ex.:
Ortho Clinical
Diagnostics
Vitros 250 AT
Analyzers
(K922072)	Lab-Interlink
AWCC Software
K010500	Same or Different
Tube types	16 x 100 mm, 13 x 100, and 13 x
75 mm	16 x 100 mm, 13
x 100, and 13 x
75 mm	16 x 100 mm, 13 x 100, and
13 x 75 mm	Same
Power
require-
ments	Depends on number of modules
on the conveyor system.
Typically, for a conveyor 100
feet in length the power required
is less than 10 amps at 115 VAC		Greater power consumption,
exact amount is information
is no longer available.	Different
Less power is
required. This
does not affect
Safety and
Efficacy in a
negative manner.
Conveyor
speed	Approximately 28-30
feet/minute	n/a	Approximately 20-25
feet/minute	Minor difference
Conveyor
capacity	Approximately 2200 carriers/
hour	n/a	Approximately 300-400/hour	Minor Difference
Sample
Identificati
on	Direct identification of sample
by single bar code on sample..	n/a	Indirect identification by bar
code on tube and a different
bar code on carrier, prone
sample mix-ups. Bar code on
tube must be mapped to bar
code on carrier. Should the
tube be removed by tech
there is a good chance of
sample misidentification.	Different:
Direct ID is
much more
reliable. This
difference does
not impact Safety
and Effectiveness
in a negative
manner.
Entering
samples on
conveyor	Sample tube is simply placed in
carrier at loading station. No
manual entry required.
Automated bar code read and
download of pending tests from
LIS	n/a	Must remove sample tray
from robot, scan bar code on
tray, manually enter tube size,
must place in assigned tray
location, place tray back in
robot. Presents bottleneck at
sample loading area.	Different:
This does not
affect Safety and
efficacy since the
bar code is
automatically
read for the tests.
No manual entry
is required.

--- Page 5 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Provided in k922072
d. Detection limit:
Provided in k922072
e. Analytical specificity:
Provided in k922072
f. Assay cut-off:
Provided in k922072
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The method correlation comparison study was conducted between a
stand-alone Vitros 250 analyzer and a Vitros 250 analyzer integrated with the
ILAS system yielded the following results for the Glucose.
Number of Correlation Y-axis
Specimens Coefficient Slope Intercept
Glucose 50 0.9999 1.005 0.1
b. Matrix comparison:
Provided in k922072
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Provided in k922072
N. Instrument Name:
INTEGRATED LABORATORY AUTOMATION SOLUTION
O. System Descriptions:
5 of 6

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Number of
Specimens	Correlation
Coefficient	Slope	Y-axis
Intercept
Glucose	50	0.9999	1.005	0.1

--- Page 6 ---
1. Modes of Operation:
The ILAS system receives downloads from the Laboratory Information System
(LIS) with the patient ID and menu of tests to be performed by the laboratory
analyzers. The patients specimens are loaded onto the ILAS and bar codes are
read and transported on the track. If a test is to be run on the analyzer, the
specimen is switched to a side track supplying the testing analyzer with clinical
specimens. All reporting of clinical specimen test results are transmitted from the
analyzer to the LIS and the ILAS software is not involved in test results reporting.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
The applicant provided software documentation that supports the device was
designed and developed under good software LifeCycle processes.
3. Specimen Identification:
Bar coded
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The patients specimens are loaded onto the ILAS and bar codes are read. The bar
codes are read at each laboratory analyzer station to determine whether the
specimen should be directed to that specific analyzer.
5. Calibration:
Provided in k922072
6. Quality Control:
Provided in k922072
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Various functional test protocols were used to validate the barcode read and
transmission capabilities for the Integrated Laboratory Automation Solution
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6 of 6