
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091024
B. Purpose for Submission:
Premarket notification
C. Measurand:
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
D. Type of Test:
Detection of MRSA using a selective and differential chromogenic media
E. Applicant:
bioMérieux, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
chromID™ MRSA Agar
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1700
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JSO Culture media, Antimicrobial susceptibility test, excluding Mueller Hinton
Agar
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
chromID™ MRSA agar is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for
the qualitative detection of nasal colonization of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) to aid in the prevention and control of MRSA infections in
healthcare settings. The test is performed on anterior nares swab specimens from
patients and healthcare workers to screen for MRSA colonization. chromID™
MRSA agar is not intended to diagnose MRSA infection nor to guide or monitor
treatment of infection.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The chromID™ MRSA agar is not intended to diagnose MRSA infection nor to
guide or monitor treatment of infection.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The chromID™ MRSA agar is translucent and a light tan color. After the plates are
inoculated and incubated, colonies growing on the plates will have either a green
appearance, which indicates a positive MRSA status or a colorless appearance which
indicates a negative MRSA status. The green color is more vivid if the colonies are
observed through the agar from the bottom of the plate.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BBL™ CHROMagar™ MRSA
2. Predicate K number(s):
k042812
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use For MRSA detection For MRSA detection
Reporting MRSA MRSA
Reading Manual Manual
Inoculum Anterior nares specimens Anterior nares specimens
Test Methodology selective and differential selective and differential
chromogenic prepared chromogenic prepared
culture medium culture medium
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Detection Method chromID™ contains a BBL™ CHROMagar™
chromogenic substrate MRSA contains specific
and a combination of chromogenic substrates
several antibiotics and cefoxitin. MRSA
including cefoxitin. The strains growing in the
chromogenic substrate presence of these
provides for the direct substrates will produce
detection of MRSA by mauve-colored colonies
revealing £-glucosidase resulting from hydrolysis
activity which produces of the chromogenic
green colonies (patent substrate
registered).
Incubation 24 hours at 35 - 37°C in 24 - 48 hours in 33 - 37°
aerobic conditions C in aerobic conditions
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities							
	Item		Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			For MRSA detection		For MRSA detection		
Reporting			MRSA		MRSA		
Reading			Manual		Manual		
Inoculum			Anterior nares specimens		Anterior nares specimens		
							
Test Methodology			selective and differential
chromogenic prepared
culture medium		selective and differential
chromogenic prepared
culture medium		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences							
	Item		Device			Predicate	
Detection Method			chromID™ contains a
chromogenic substrate
and a combination of
several antibiotics
including cefoxitin. The
chromogenic substrate
provides for the direct
detection of MRSA by
revealing £-glucosidase
activity which produces
green colonies (patent
registered).		BBL™ CHROMagar™
MRSA contains specific
chromogenic substrates
and cefoxitin. MRSA
strains growing in the
presence of these
substrates will produce
mauve-colored colonies
resulting from hydrolysis
of the chromogenic
substrate		
Incubation			24 hours at 35 - 37°C in
aerobic conditions		24 - 48 hours in 33 - 37°
C in aerobic conditions		

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
The chromID™ MRSA agar consists of a rich nutritive base combining different
peptones. It also contains a chromogenic substrate of α-glucosidase and a
combination of several antibiotics including cefoxitin, which favor
• the growth of methicillin-resistant staphylococci (MRSA) including
hetero-resistant strains,
• the direct detection of MRSA strains by revealing £-glucosidase
(patent registered): green colonies
The selective mixture inhibits most bacteria not belonging to the genus
Staphylococcus, as well as yeasts.
The MRSA strains are identified by the presence of green colonies that result from the
chromogen incorporated in the medium. The chromogen targets the α-glucosidase
activity of S. aureus. The α-glucosidase produced by S. aureus cleaves the chromogenic
substrate, which gives a green color to the S. aureus colonies growing on the medium.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was demonstrated at three sites using 10 S. aureus strains
including MRSA, MSSA, and borderline oxacillin-resistant S. aureus
(BORSA) isolates. Reproducibility was >95%. The BORSA strain
demonstrated a negative result.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The recommended quality control (QC) organisms, S. aureus ATCC 43300 as
positive control, and S. aureus ATCC 25923 as negative control were used.
Quality control data was compiled across all three sites and all QC results
were acceptable.
QC Data summary at 24 hours
Organism PCR cMRSA cMRSA
Result Positive Negative
S. aureus ATCC® 29213 – mecA negative Neg 0 Neg
Expected Result: Neg
S. aureus ATCC® 43300 – mecA positive Pos Pos 0
Expected Results : Pos
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity
Cross Reactivity Study was initially performed on 76 isolates during the
development of the media in 2004. In 2009, 34 additional strains were tested.
Certain organisms other than S. aureus, i.e. Acinetobacter baumannii, Bacillus
cereus, Enterobacter cloacae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas
putida, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and
Micrococcus spp. showed growth at 24 hours but did not produce green
pigmented colonies. Certain ESBL producers with heavy inoculum gave
characteristic green color at the point of inoculation after 24 hours of
incubation.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Organism	PCR
Result	cMRSA
Positive	cMRSA
Negative
S. aureus ATCC® 29213 – mecA negative
Expected Result: Neg	Neg	0	Neg
S. aureus ATCC® 43300 – mecA positive
Expected Results : Pos	Pos	Pos	0
			

--- Page 6 ---
Interference Study
The human blood and mucin do not demonstrate interference with the
chromID™MRSA agar. The medicines that contain antiseptic agents
(benzalkonium chloride, phenyl ethylic alcohol, sodium edetate, chlorhexidine
gluconate, amylmetacresol, menthol, bismuth) demonstrated an effect on the
growth and on the color of the agar in comparison to the control.
Interference study was also performed on transport media i.e., Amies Gel
Medium, Liquid Amies Medium, Stuart Gel Medium, Liquid Stuart Medium,
and Cary-Blair Transport Media. The transport media tested did not affect the
characteristics of chromID MRSA medium.
Expression of Resistance
Ten well-characterized S. aureus ssp. aureus strains having low level
resistance to methicillin were evaluated with chromID™ MRSA. These
strains were detected when the oxacillin MIC is equal to or greater than 2
mg/l. MRSA strains with an oxacillin MIC less than or equal to
1 mg/l may be not detected when the inoculum is very low.
f. Analytical sensitivity
Recovery study
Recovery study was performed using one strain of S. aureus (MRSA) ATCC
43300. The lowest number of CFU that can be detected on chromID MRSA
is equivalent to 10 CFU per 100μL of sample.
g. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
6

--- Page 7 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The performance of the chromID™ MRSA agar was evaluated at three sites
using 1260 nasal swab specimens. Results from the chromID™ MRSA at 24
hour incubation were compared to results obtained from traditional culture on
Tryptic Soy Agar with 5% sheep Blood (Blood Agar) after 24 hour
incubation. Isolates of S. aureus were identified as MRSA using latex
agglutination and cefoxitin screen.
Percent agreement to the Cefoxitin Disk Diffusion Test (30ug) as compared to
the chromID™ MRSA agar is presented in the table below.
TSAB Cefoxitin Disk
Diffusion Test (30μg)
24h
chromIDTM Pos Neg Total
MRSA Result
in 24h
Pos 277 *27 304
Neg 17 938 955
Total 294 965 1259
*27/27 of the TSAB negative specimens were confirmed as
MRSA positive by cefoxitin disk diffusion.
Positive Percent Agreement: 94.22% (90.90%, 96.60%)
Negative Percent Agreement: 97.20% (95.96%, 98.15%)
Positive Predictive Value: 91.12% (87.34%, 94.07%
Negative Predictive Value: 98.22% (97.17%, 98.96%)
A challenge set of 20 well characterized S. aureus isolates were tested at one
external site. The challenge isolates included 14 mecA positive of which ten
came from the Network on Antimicrobial Resistance in Staphylococcus
aureus (NARSA) and four additional MRSA strains, five mecA negative
methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA), and one borderline oxacillin
resistant S. aureus (BORSA). All isolates showed expected results except for
the USA600 strain from NARSA. This specific strain demonstrated pinpoint
pale green colonies after 24 hours incubation.
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
				TSAB Cefoxitin Disk			
				Diffusion Test (30μg)			
				24h			
	chromIDTM		Pos		Neg	Total	
	MRSA Result						
	in 24h						
Pos			277		*27	304	
Neg			17		938	955	
Total			294		965	1259	

--- Page 8 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8

--- Page 9 ---
9