
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k091284
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for the VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma, VisuCon-F frozen
normal control plasma and VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control plasma
C. Measurand:
Normal and Abnormal Control Plasma: Fibrinogen (Clauss Method), coagulation
factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII, antithrombin activity, protein S activity
and protein C activity.
Calibrator plasma: Fibrinogen (Clauss Method), coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII,
IX, X, XI and XII, anti-thrombin activity, α-2-antiplasmin, plasminogen, protein C
activity and antigen, protein S activity and total antigen, von Willebrand factor
antigen and ristocetin cofactor.
D. Type of Test:
Assayed Controls and Calibrator
E. Applicant:
Affinity Biologicals, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma
VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control plasma
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425; Multipurpose systems for in vitro coagulation studies
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN; Plasma, Coagulation Control
JIX; Calibrator, Multi-Analyte Mixture
4. Panel:
Hematology 81
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma is intended for use in the calibration of
coagulation and fibrinolysis assays.
The VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma is intended for use in the quality
control of coagulation assays in the normal range.
The VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control plasma is intended for use in the quality
control of coagulation assays in the borderline pathological range.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma is intended for use in the calibration of
coagulation and fibrinolysis assays including the following: Fibrinogen (Clauss
1

--- Page 2 ---
Method), Coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII, anti-thrombin
activity, α-2-antiplasmin, plasminogen, protein C activity and antigen, protein S
activity and total antigen, von Willebrand factor antigen and ristocetin cofactor.
The VisuCon-F frozen normal control is intended for use in the quality control of
coagulation assays in the normal range for the following parameters: Fibrinogen
(Clauss Method), Coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII,
antithrombin activity, protein S activity and protein C activity.
The VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control is intended for use in the quality control
of coagulation assays in the borderline pathological range for the following
parameters: Fibrinogen (Clauss Method), Coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX,
X, XI and XII, antithrombin activity, protein S activity and protein C activity.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not Applicable
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not Applicable
I. Device Description:
The VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma, VisuCon-F frozen normal control
plasma, and VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control plasma are pools of normal
citrated human plasma collected from a minimum of 20 donors, buffered with
0.02 M HEPES buffer, dispensed and rapidly frozen.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dade Behring standard human plasma
Precision Biologic Reference Check normal control plasma
Precision Biologic Cryocheck abnormal reference check I & II
2. Predicate K number(s):
k023141
k013708
k952624
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate Additional Predicate
Device name VisuCal-F frozen calibrator Dade Behring Standard Precision Biologic Cryocheck
plasma (k091284) Human Plasma Normal Reference Plasma
(k023141) (k952622)
Intended Use For use in the calibration of Same For use in the in vitro
coagulation and fibrinolysis quantification of hemostatic
assays parameters in human plasma.
May also be used to assign
values to in-house collected
normal plasma pools or to
commercially available
unassayed frozen plasma
pools.
Matrix Citrated human plasma Same Same
Traceability of Value assignments Value assignments Same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities											
	Item			Device			Predicate			Additional Predicate	
Device name			VisuCal-F frozen calibrator
plasma (k091284)			Dade Behring Standard
Human Plasma
(k023141)			Precision Biologic Cryocheck
Normal Reference Plasma
(k952622)		
Intended Use			For use in the calibration of
coagulation and fibrinolysis
assays			Same			For use in the in vitro
quantification of hemostatic
parameters in human plasma.
May also be used to assign
values to in-house collected
normal plasma pools or to
commercially available
unassayed frozen plasma
pools.		
Matrix			Citrated human plasma			Same			Same		
Traceability of			Value assignments			Value assignments			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate Additional Predicate
calibrator traceable to SSC/ISTH traceable to WHO
plasma secondary coagulation International standards,
standard, where available, where available
which is calibrated against
WHO International
standards
Analytes Fibrinogen, factors II, V, Fibrinogen, factors II, V, Same
VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and
XII, von Willebrand factor XII, von Willebrand
antigen, ristocetin cofactor, factor antigen, ristocetin
protein S activity, protein C cofactor, protein S
activity, anti-thrombin activity, protein C
activity, α-2-antiplasmin, activity, anti-thrombin
plasminogen, Protein C activity, α-2-antiplasmin,
antigen and protein S total plasminogen
antigen
Differences
Item Device Predicate Additional Predicate
Analytes Prothrombin time (PT), Factor XIII, Free Protein S
factor XIII, C-1 inhibitor, antigen, antithrombin
Total complement activity antigen
Format Frozen Lyophilized Same
Open vial 8 hours at 2–8°C except 4 hours at 15 to 25°C, 4 8 hours at 2–8°C
stability protein S which is stable for weeks at -20°C
4 hours at 2–8°C
Open vial stability 8 hours at 2–8°C Same
Traceability of Value assignments traceable to SSC/ISTH Same
Similarities
calibrator plasma secondary coagulation standard, where
Item Device Predicate
available, which is calibrated against
Device Name VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma Precision Biologic Reference Check
WHO International standards
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control Normal Control (k013708)
plasma Precision Biologic Abnormal 1
Reference Control (k952624)
Intended Use VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma: Precision Biologic Reference Normal
For the quality control of coagulation Control: For controlling the accuracy
assays in the normal range. of quantitative hemostasis assays in the
normal range.
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control Precision Biologic Abnormal 1
plasma: For the quality control of Reference Control: For controlling the
coagulation assays in the borderline accuracy of quantitative hemostasis
pathological range. assays in the normal range.
Matrix Citrated human plasma Same
Format Frozen Same
Analytes Fibrinogen, factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, Same
XI and XII, protein S activity, protein C
activity, anti-thrombin activity
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities											
	Item			Device			Predicate			Additional Predicate	
calibrator
plasma			traceable to SSC/ISTH
secondary coagulation
standard, where available,
which is calibrated against
WHO International
standards			traceable to WHO
International standards,
where available					
Analytes			Fibrinogen, factors II, V,
VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and
XII, von Willebrand factor
antigen, ristocetin cofactor,
protein S activity, protein C
activity, anti-thrombin
activity, α-2-antiplasmin,
plasminogen, Protein C
antigen and protein S total
antigen			Fibrinogen, factors II, V,
VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and
XII, von Willebrand
factor antigen, ristocetin
cofactor, protein S
activity, protein C
activity, anti-thrombin
activity, α-2-antiplasmin,
plasminogen			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences																	
	Item			Device						Predicate					Additional Predicate		
Analytes									Prothrombin time (PT),
factor XIII, C-1 inhibitor,
Total complement activity					Factor XIII, Free Protein S
antigen, antithrombin
antigen			
Format			Frozen						Lyophilized					Same			
Open vial
stability			8 hours at 2–8°C except
protein S which is stable for
4 hours at 2–8°C						4 hours at 15 to 25°C, 4
weeks at -20°C					8 hours at 2–8°C			
Open vial stability						8 hours at 2–8°C						Same					
																	
Traceability of						Value assignments traceable to SSC/ISTH
Similarities						Same					
	calibrator plasma
Item						secondary coagulation standard, where
Device					Predicate					
Device Name						available, which is calibrated against
VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma
WHO International standards
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control						Precision Biologic Reference Check
Normal Control (k013708)					
						plasma						Precision Biologic Abnormal 1
Reference Control (k952624)					
Intended Use						VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma:
For the quality control of coagulation
assays in the normal range.
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control
plasma: For the quality control of
coagulation assays in the borderline
pathological range.						Precision Biologic Reference Normal
Control: For controlling the accuracy
of quantitative hemostasis assays in the
normal range.
Precision Biologic Abnormal 1
Reference Control: For controlling the
accuracy of quantitative hemostasis
assays in the normal range.					
Matrix						Citrated human plasma						Same					
Format						Frozen						Same					
Analytes						Fibrinogen, factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X,
XI and XII, protein S activity, protein C
activity, anti-thrombin activity						Same					

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Device Name VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma Precision Biologic reference control
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control normal
plasma Precision Biologic abnormal 1
reference control
Analytes Factor XIII, von Willebrand factor
antigen, ristocetin cofactor,
Prekallikrein, protein S total antigen,
free antigen, protein C antigen, anti-
thrombin antigen, α-2-antiplasmin,
plasminogen
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Points to consider: Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Assayed and
Unassayed Quality Control Material, February 3, 1999.
L. Test Principle:
The VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma is an assayed reference plasma prepared
from a pool of citrated human plasma collected from a minimum of 20 donors,
buffered with 0.02M HEPES buffer, dispensed and rapidly frozen. The plasma
can be used to construct a reference curve when measuring the following
parameters: Fibrinogen (Clauss Method), coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX,
X, XI and XII, anti-thrombin activity, α-2-antiplasmin, plasminogen, protein C
activity and antigen, protein S activity and total antigen, von Willebrand factor
antigen and ristocetin cofactor.
The VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma is a pool of normal citrated human
plasma collected from a minimum of 20 donors, buffered with 0.02M HEPES
buffer, dispensed and rapidly frozen. This control plasma may be used to confirm
assay calibration and to monitor the performance of coagulation assays for the
following parameters: fibrinogen (Clauss Method), coagulation factors II, V, VII,
VIII, IX, X, XI and XII, anti-thrombin, protein C and protein S.
The VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control plasma is a pool of 20 normal citrated
human plasma donors, diluted to defined concentrations, buffered with 0.02M
HEPES buffer, dispensed and rapidly frozen. This control plasma may be used to
monitor the performance of coagulation assays for the following parameters:
fibrinogen (Clauss Method), coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI and
XII, anti-thrombin, protein C and protein S.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision testing for the VisuCal-F frozen calibrator plasma and the VisuCon-
F frozen normal and abnormal control plasmas was performed as part of the
value assignment process by running each lot of plasma in replicates of five
over 4 days (n=20). The intra-assay and inter-assay precision results for each
analyte were calculated per NCCLS (CLSI) Guideline EP05-A2. Results were
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Device Name			VisuCon-F frozen normal control plasma
VisuCon-F frozen abnormal control
plasma			Precision Biologic reference control
normal
Precision Biologic abnormal 1
reference control	
Analytes						Factor XIII, von Willebrand factor
antigen, ristocetin cofactor,
Prekallikrein, protein S total antigen,
free antigen, protein C antigen, anti-
thrombin antigen, α-2-antiplasmin,
plasminogen	

--- Page 5 ---
considered valid if predefined acceptance specifications of %CV of ≤5% or
15%, depending on the analyte tested, were achieved for intra and inter-assay
precision.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: Calibrator value assignment is traceable to SSC/ISTH secondary
coagulation standard, where available, which is calibrated against WHO
International standards.
Stability: Open-vial stability of the thawed calibrator and control plasmas was
performed on two validation lots for each product. After thawing, plasmas
were tested for the indicated analytes, stored at 2-8°C in the original vial and
retested at 4 hours and 8 hours after initial testing. Antigen assays were only
performed if activity assays showed a significant decrease over time. Plasmas
were considered stable if the following specifications were met:
Results at 4 and 8 hour time points are:
• Within ± 10% of the time 0 result for PT and aPTT
• Within ± 15% of the time 0 result for fibrinogen, factors II to
XII, antithrombin, protein C and protein S
Calibrator Value Assignment: Assigned values for all analytes for each lot of
calibrator plasma were determined by testing 20 vials over 4 days, five vials
per day and calculating the mean value of the determinations.
Controls Value Assignment: For each lot of normal and abnormal control
plasma, ranges were assigned to the various analytes by testing 20 vials over 4
days, five vials per day and calculating the mean ± 2 standard deviations.
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values for the VisuCal-F Calibrator are demonstrated in the table
below.
Parameter Result Instrument
Fibrinogen (Clauss)1 3.41 g/L STA Compact
Factor II (activity)1 89% STA Compact
Factor V (activity)1 105% STA Compact
Factor VII (activity)1 105% STA Compact
Factor VIII (activity) 1
78% STA Compact
(clotting)
Factor IX (activity) 1 113% STA Compact
Factor X (activity) 1 99% STA Compact
Factor XI (activity)1 99% STA Compact
Factor XII (activity) 2 118% STA Compact
α-2- antiplasmin (activity)3 123% ACL7000
Antithrombin (activity) 1 107% STA Compact
Plasminogen (activity) 3 97% ACL7000
activity1 100% STA Compact
Protein C
antigen1 100% Microplate reader
activity1 102% STA Compact
Protein S
antigen1 100% Microplate reader
antigen1 105% Microplate reader
vWF
Ristocetin
63% BCS
Cofactor1
1 Calibrated against SSC/ISTH reference standard
2 Calibrated against Standard Human Plasma Dade Behring
3 Calibrated against Cryocheck Normal Reference Plasma Precision Biologic
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Parameter		Result	Instrument
Fibrinogen (Clauss)1		3.41 g/L	STA Compact
Factor II (activity)1		89%	STA Compact
Factor V (activity)1		105%	STA Compact
Factor VII (activity)1		105%	STA Compact
Factor VIII (activity) 1
(clotting)		78%	STA Compact
Factor IX (activity) 1		113%	STA Compact
Factor X (activity) 1		99%	STA Compact
Factor XI (activity)1		99%	STA Compact
Factor XII (activity) 2		118%	STA Compact
α-2- antiplasmin (activity)3		123%	ACL7000
Antithrombin (activity) 1		107%	STA Compact
Plasminogen (activity) 3		97%	ACL7000
Protein C	activity1	100%	STA Compact
	antigen1	100%	Microplate reader
Protein S	activity1	102%	STA Compact
	antigen1	100%	Microplate reader
vWF	antigen1	105%	Microplate reader
	Ristocetin
Cofactor1	63%	BCS