
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k091409
B. Purpose for Submission:
Determine substantial equivalence for this 510(k) for MRSA from nasal specimens.
C. Measurand:
Detects Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) by targeting the right
extremity (RE) of the Staphylococcal Cassette Chromosome mec (SCCmec)/orfX
junction.
D. Type of Test:
Nucleic Acid Amplification Test, DNA, Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA), qualitative
E. Applicant:
Roche Molecular Systems, Inc
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR866. 1640 Antimicrobial susceptibility test powder
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NQX - Nucleic Acid Amplification test, MRSA, Direct Specimen
OOI - Nuclei Acid Amplification System, Real Time
4. Panel:
83 - Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic test
for the direct detection of nasal colonization with methicillin-resistant (MRSA) to
1

--- Page 2 ---
aid in the prevention and control of MRSA infections in healthcare settings. The
test is performed on the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument with nasal swab specimens
from patients suspected of colonization, uses swab extraction and mechanical
lysis for specimen preparation followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for
the amplification of MRSA DNA, and fluorogenic target specific hybridization
probes for the detection of the amplified DNA.
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test is not intended to diagnose, guide or
monitor treatment for MRSA infections. Concomitant cultures are necessary to
recover organisms for epidemiology typing or for further susceptibility testing.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic test
for the direct detection of nasal colonization with methicillin-resistant (MRSA) to
aid in the prevention and control of MRSA infections in healthcare settings. The
test is performed on the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument with nasal swab specimens
from patients suspected of colonization, uses swab extraction and mechanical
lysis for specimen preparation followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for
the amplification of MRSA DNA, and fluorogenic target specific hybridization
probes for the detection of the amplified DNA.
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test is not intended to diagnose, guide or
monitor treatment for MRSA infections. Concomitant cultures are necessary to
recover organisms for epidemiology typing or for further susceptibility testing.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
To be used with the LightCycler 2.0 Instrument
I. Device Description:
Specimen collection swab heads are cut into lysis tubes and subjected to heating to
inactivate specimens. Subsequently lysis tubes are transferred in the MagNA Lyser
Instrument where mechanical lysis of bacterial cell walls occurs, resulting in crude
lysate preparations. After a brief centrifugation step to spin down glass beads and
swab fibers, the processed specimen are subjected to PCR analysis using the
LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test.
The processed samples and the amplification mixture containing hot-start Taq
polymerase are placed in LightCycler® Capillaries (20μL) in which PCR
amplification will occur. Each LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test reaction contains
an internal control, which is designed to control for specimen inhibition, and to
monitor reagent integrity. Also present in each LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test
is the AmpErase (uracil-N-glycosylase) enzyme. It recognizes and catalyzes the
destruction of DNA strands containing deoxyuridine, but not DNA containing
2

--- Page 3 ---
deoxythymidine. Since amplicons produced with the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced
Test contain deoxyuridine, potential amplicon contaminants are eliminated during a
prolonged heating step performed prior to the start of PCR amplification.
A target sequence in a plasmid is simultaneously amplified in the Positive Control.
The Positive Control is intended to monitor for reagent failure and is included into
each run. Each run also includes a Negative Control used to detect reagent or
environmental contamination by MRSA DNA.
MRSA and Internal Control amplicons are detected by fluorescence using a specific
pair of
hybridization probes. The probes attach to a specific internal sequence in the amplified
fragment and are positioned in a closed proximity to one another. Upon excitation,
these bound probes emit a fluorescence signal of a specific wavelength using a
process called Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET). The emitted light is
measured by the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument. MRSA or internal control specific
amplicons are detected in parallel in two different detection channels and thus can be
differentiated.
After completion of the real-time PCR process, a melting peak analysis is performed
by the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument. Single stranded DNA amplicons with bound
hybridization probes are subjected to increasing temperatures. When the PCR products
reach a specific temperature one of the two bound hybridization probes melts off,
resulting in a loss of fluorescence signal. The decrease in the fluorescence signal
occurs at a specific temperature and results in melting peaks which are used to identify
and distinguish MRSA- and IC-specific amplicons.
After a visual identification of the melting peaks is performed using Tm Bars in the
LightCycler® Software, test results are transferred to a dedicated interpretation tool
(the Micro Analysis Software) and a report is generated.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BD GeneOhm MRSA Assay
1. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K033415
K042357
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Device Predicate
Item LightCycler® MRSA BD GeneOhm™
Advanced Test MRSA Assay
Intended Use Direct and qualitative detection of Same
MRSA
Sample Type Nasal swab Same
Lysis Mechanical lysis using glass beads Same
Mode of detection Nucleic acid amplification (DNA) Same
utilizing real-time PCR
Internal Assay Controls Internal assay control to detect Same
inhibitory specimens and to confirm
integrity of reagent in negative
samples
External Controls Provided: positive control to Same
monitor for reagent integrity
DNA Target Sequence incorporating the Similar but not identical
Sequence insertion site of the SCCmec in the
S. aureus orfX gene
Workflow Multiple manual steps including Same
pipetting, fluid transfer, vortexing,
centrifugation and sample heating
Differences
Assay platform LightCycler SmartCycler
Detection Chemistry Paired target-specific Target-specific hybridization
hybridization probes using probes (molecular beacon
fluorescence resonance energy technology)
transfer (FRET)
Result analysis Melting peak analysis Amplification curves analysis
Time to result 2 hours 60- 75 minutes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test relies on three major processes:
1) Specimen preparation by mechanical lysis of the bacterial cell walls
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities					
		Device		Predicate	
					
Item	LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test	LightCycler® MRSA		BD GeneOhm™
MRSA Assay	
		Advanced Test			
Intended Use	Direct and qualitative detection of
MRSA			Same	
Sample Type	Nasal swab			Same	
Lysis	Mechanical lysis using glass beads			Same	
Mode of detection	Nucleic acid amplification (DNA)
utilizing real-time PCR			Same	
Internal Assay Controls	Internal assay control to detect
inhibitory specimens and to confirm
integrity of reagent in negative
samples			Same	
External Controls	Provided: positive control to
monitor for reagent integrity			Same	
DNA Target
Sequence	Sequence incorporating the
insertion site of the SCCmec in the
S. aureus orfX gene			Similar but not identical	
Workflow	Multiple manual steps including
pipetting, fluid transfer, vortexing,
centrifugation and sample heating			Same	
					
Differences					
Assay platform	LightCycler			SmartCycler	
Detection Chemistry	Paired target-specific
hybridization probes using
fluorescence resonance energy
transfer (FRET)			Target-specific hybridization
probes (molecular beacon
technology)	
Result analysis	Melting peak analysis			Amplification curves analysis	
Time to result	2 hours			60- 75 minutes	
					

--- Page 5 ---
2) PCR amplification of target DNA and detection by specific hybridization probes
3) Automated result generation after melting peak analysis.
Specimen Preparation
The mechanical lysis of the nasal swab specimens is performed by using the
LightCycler® Advanced Lysis Kit and the MagNA Lyser Instrument. Swab heads are
cut into lysis tubes and subjected to heating to inactivate all bacteria. Subsequently
lysis tubes are transferred in the MagNA Lyser Instrument where mechanical lysis of
bacterial cell walls occurs, resulting in crude lysate preparations. After a brief
centrifugation step to spin down glass beads and swab fibers, the processed specimen
are subjected to PCR analysis using the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test.
PCR Amplification
Target Selection
The primers and probes in the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test detect a
proprietary sequence indicative of the integration of the SCCmec cassette into the S.
aureus chromosome, indicating the presence of MRSA DNA.
Amplification
The processed samples and the amplification mixture containing hot-start Taq
polymerase are placed in LightCycler® Capillaries (20μL) in which PCR
amplification will occur. Each LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test reaction contains
an internal control, which is designed to control for specimen inhibition, and to
monitor reagent integrity. The AmpErase (uracil-N-glycosylase) enzyme included in
the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test recognizes and catalyzes the destruction of
DNA strands containing deoxyuridine, but not DNA containing deoxythymidine.
Since amplicons produced with the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test contain
deoxyuridine, potential amplicon contaminants are eliminated during a prolonged
heating step performed prior to the start of PCR amplification.
A target sequence in a plasmid is simultaneously amplified in the Positive Control.
The Positive Control is intended to monitor for reagent failure and is included into
each run. Each run also includes a Negative Control used to detect reagent or
environmental contamination by MRSA DNA.
Specific detection of PCR products by Hybridization Probes
MRSA and Internal Control amplicons are detected by fluorescence using a specific
pair of hybridization probes. The probes attach to a specific internal sequence in the
amplified fragment and are positioned in a closed proximity to one another. Upon
excitation, these bound probes emit a fluorescence signal of a specific wavelength
using a process called Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET). The emitted
light is measured by the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument. MRSA or internal control
specific amplicons are detected in parallel in two different detection channels and
thus can be differentiated.
5

--- Page 6 ---
After completion of the real-time PCR process, a melting peak analysis is performed
automatically by the LightCycler® 2.0 Instrument. Single stranded DNA amplicons
with bound hybridization probes are subjected to increasing temperatures. When the
PCR products reach a specific temperature one of the two bound hybridization probes
melts off, resulting in a loss of fluorescence signal. The decrease in the fluorescence
signal occurs at a specific temperature and results in melting peaks which are used to
identify and distinguish MRSA- and IC-specific amplicons.
Automated result generation after melting peak analysis
After a visual identification of the melting peaks is performed using TM Bars in the
LightCycler® Software, test results are transferred to a dedicated interpretation tool
(the Micro Analysis Software) and a report is generated.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility study was performed using a 12 member panel with varying
concentrations of MRSA and methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus epidermidis
(MSSE) at a constant level. Two operators at each of three sites performed each
per day for five days on three reagent lots; 4 specimens x 3 replicates x 5 days x 3
sites x 3 lots x 2 operators.
The panel included a negative sample, below the LOD (20 CFU/swab expected to
yield a positivity rate of between 30 to 70%), weak positive (300 CFU/swab), and
positive (800 CFU/swab). The negative panel member yield negative results from
a low of 99% to 100%. The below LOD panel member positivity rate ranged
from a low of 42% to 47%, the weak positive panel member positivity rate ranged
from a low of 99% to 100%, and the positive panel member positivity rate ranged
from a low of 99% to 100% depending on the site.
Summary of Reproducibility Results
6

--- Page 7 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or
methods):
The LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test includes an Internal Control
(IC); at least one Positive Control (PC) and one Negative Control (NC,
required but not included in the kit) must be processed with each run. The
valid run rate was >95% and was acceptable.
A MRSA strain representative of RE2 types is used for this external
positive control. MRSA strains representing RE3 and RE7 types may be
used as additional external positive controls to monitor assay primers and
probes not directly controlled in the assay. External controls may be used
in accordance with local, state, and federal accrediting organization, as
applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Limit of Detection Study
The Limit of Detection (LoD) study was determined using three MRSA types
7

--- Page 8 ---
(RE2, RE3, and RE7) covered by the primers and probes in the assay and for the
three swab types.
Cultures of these strains were quantified, diluted to values spanning the range of
100 to 400 colony forming units (CFU) per swab, and absorbed onto swabs
previously soaked into various transport media. All dilutions around the LOD
value were tested in replicates of at least 30. The limit of detection obtained for
each strain type and swab type tested represents the lowest number of CFU/swab
at which a positive result will be obtained with at least 95% confidence. Results
indicate that the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test will produce a positive
result with 95% confidence for a swab containing 240 CFU.
Summary of Results for three swab types tested
Analytical Inclusivity
A total of 137 well characterized MRSA strains were obtained through the
Network on Antimicrobial Resistance in S. aureus at a concentration of 105
CFU/mL.
Isolates with positive
Number of
results by the
USA type isolates
LightCycler® MRSA
tested
Advanced Test
100 54* 53
200 5 5
300 37 37
400 4 4
500 7 7
600 3 3
700 4 4
800 7 7
1000 7 7
1100 4 4
Not typable/ unknown 5 5
Total 137 136 (99.3%)
*Of the 54 USA100 strains, one strain (NRS642) was negative by the LightCyclerMRSA
Advanced Test
An additional 1,643 isolates were collected in Europe (65%) and in the U.S.
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
USA type	Number of
isolates
tested		Isolates with positive	
			results by the	
			LightCycler® MRSA	
			Advanced Test	
100	54*	53		
200	5	5		
300	37	37		
400	4	4		
500	7	7		
600	3	3		
700	4	4		
800	7	7		
1000	7	7		
1100	4	4		
Not typable/ unknown	5	5		
Total	137	136 (99.3%)		

[Table 2 on page 8]
Number of
isolates
tested

--- Page 9 ---
(35%). There were 1,561 (95%) correctly identified as MRSA; 82 were negative
by the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity
The study included pathogenic microorganisms and contaminants potentially
present in nasal microflora. Microorganisms tested were 13 viral, 66 bacterial and
7 fungal species at concentrations of 106 to 107CFU/mL, or as genomic DNA at
concentrations 10 pg/PCR. Human DNA at concentration of 5ng/reaction was
also tested. Rothia mucilaginosa revealed a weak positive melting peak in the
target channel 610. The results were negative for MRSA 98.9% of the organisms
tested.
In addition, 100 methicillin sensitive S. aureus (MSSA), 117 methicillin resistant
Coagulase negative Staph (CoNS) and 104 methicillin sensitive CoNS at
concentrations 104 – 105 CFU/reaction were tested. Results were all negative by
the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test.
Ten Staphylococcus aureus isolates characterized as Borderline Oxacillin
Resistant S. aureus (BORSA) were included in the evaluation of BORSA study.
They have an oxacillin MIC of ≥ 4µg/mL and were negative by an assay for the
detection of PBP2′ of S. aureus. The BORSA isolates were tested at a
concentration range of 10,000 – 100,000 CFU/lysis tube. All the results were
negative.
Interference Study
Exogenous Interferent
The following exogenous substances, which are components of decongestants and
substances used to relieve nasal dryness and/or irritation, have been shown not to
interfere with the detection of MRSA by the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced
Test. Ointments and sprays were spiked to MRSA negative and MRSA positive
Liquid Stewart swabs.
Gels from the Amies gel swab container with and without charcoal were also
included. No interferences observed.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Exogenous Substances Tested For Interference With The LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test
Endogenous Interferent
Blood was found to inhibit the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test. The IC
amplification is inhibited at the lowest blood volume tested (5 μL) while the
MRSA amplification is affected at higher levels (> 10 μL). However, the control
concept in the MRSA Advanced Test insures that inhibitory samples are
invalidated when tested, thus preventing false negative results from being
reported. The data also indicated that excessive amounts of nasal mucus may be
inhibitory and result in an invalid test result.
Carry over/contamination
Samples with very high concentration of MRSA (i.e. 105, and 106 CFU/swab)
were alternated with MRSA negative samples through sample preparation, PCR
preparation and amplification in the LightCycler 2.0 Instrument. Data
demonstrated cross-contamination at MRSA concentration higher than (>) 105
CFU/swab.
f. Assay cut-off:
Multiple LightCycler® runs on multiple instruments were analyzed to determine the
average Tm for the Positive Control/Target signals in channel (610 nm) and valid
Internal Control signals in channel (670 nm). The baseline (assay cut-off) was
determined by the analysis of negative samples. The baseline values were then
confirmed in an additional study.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A total of 1,620 nasal swab specimens were collected from subjects at five sites
across the United States and tested with the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test.
10

--- Page 11 ---
Of the 1,620 specimen tested, 1,402 specimens were eligible to be included in
statistical analyses. Performance characteristics were determined by comparing
the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test with a second FDA-cleared nucleic acid
amplification test (NAAT), direct culture, and broth culture.
A double-headed nasal swab was collected from each subject. One swab head was
directly streaked onto a chromogenic agar plate with cefoxitin, and then processed
according to the package insert for testing with the LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test. The second swab head was directly streaked onto a separate
chromogenic plate with cefoxitin, and then processed for testing with the second
FDA-cleared NAAT test (according to the package insert). Thereafter, the second
swab head was transferred into Trypticase Soy Broth and incubated for 48 hours
at 35-37ºC and then sub-cultured onto a chromogenic plate with cefoxitin (broth
culture). Chromogenic culture plates were incubated at 35-37ºC for 20–48 hours.
Presumptive MRSA colonies from all culture plates were confirmed by coagulase
testing and Gram staining if found after 44-48 hours of incubation. Each
participating site performed all tests.
Samples that grew MRSA on direct chromogenic culture from either swab head A
and/or swab head B were considered MRSA positive. The following are the
performance summary tables of the LightCycler® MRSA Advanced Test with
CHROMagar, another NAAT, and enrichment culture:
Comparison of the LightCycler MRSA Advanced Test with Direct Chromogenic
Culture
Direct chromogenic culture
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test Positive Negative Total
Positive 178 44 222
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
	Direct chromogenic culture		
			
			
LightCycler® MRSA			
	Positive	Negative	Total
Advanced Test			
Positive	178	44	222
			

--- Page 12 ---
Direct chromogenic culture
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test Positive Negative Total
Negative 9 1,171 1,180
Total 187 1,215 1,402
Positive Percent 95.2%
Agreement (95% exact CIa) (91.1%, 97.8%)
Negative Percent 96.4%
Agreement (95% exact CI) (95.2%, 97.4%)
Note: Included in this summary are 1,402 evaluable specimens that had valid LightCycler MRSA
Advanced Test and direct culture results.
aCI =Confidence Interval
Comparison of LightCycler MRSA Advanced Test with the second FDA cleared
NAAT
The Second FDA-Cleared NAAT
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test Positive Negative Total
Positive 195 20 215
Negative 77 1,093 1,170
Total 272 1,113 1,385
Positive Percent 71.7%
Agreement (95% exact CI) (65.9%, 77.0%)
Negative Percent 98.2%
Agreement (95% exact CI)
(97.2%, 98.9%)
Note: Included in this summary are 1,385 specimen with valid results for the MRSA Advanced
Test and second FDA-cleared NAAT test which had additional concordant direct culture results
from swab heads A and B
aCI =Confidence Interval
Comparison of LightCycler MRSA Advanced Test with Broth Culture
12

[Table 1 on page 12]
	Direct chromogenic culture		
			
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test			Total
	Positive	Negative	
Negative	9	1,171	1,180
			
Total	187	1,215	1,402
Positive Percent
Agreement (95% exact CIa)	95.2%		
	(91.1%, 97.8%)		
			
Negative Percent
Agreement (95% exact CI)		96.4%	
		(95.2%, 97.4%)	
			

[Table 2 on page 12]
	The Second FDA-Cleared NAAT		
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test	Positive	Negative	Total
Positive	195	20	215
Negative	77	1,093	1,170
Total	272	1,113	1,385
Positive Percent
Agreement (95% exact CI)	71.7%
(65.9%, 77.0%)		
Negative Percent
Agreement (95% exact CI)		98.2%
(97.2%, 98.9%)	

--- Page 13 ---
Broth Culture
LightCycler® MRSA
Advanced Test Positive Negative Total
Positive 184 38 222
Negative 21 1,152 1,173
Total 205 1,190 1,395
Positive Percent 89.8%
Agreement (95% exact CI) (84.8%- 93.5%)
Negative Percent 96.8%
Agreement (95% exact CI) (95.6%, 97.7%)
Note: A total of 1395/1402 evaluable specimens that had valid LightCycler MRSA Advanced Test
and enrichment culture results are included in this summary table. Enrichment culture results
were missing /invalid for 7/1402 evaluable specimens.
aCI =Confidence Interval
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
	Broth Culture		
			
LightCycler® MRSA			
	Positive	Negative	Total
Advanced Test			
Positive	184	38	222
			
Negative	21	1,152	1,173
			
Total	205	1,190	1,395
Positive Percent	89.8%		
Agreement (95% exact CI)	(84.8%- 93.5%)		
			
Negative Percent		96.8%	
Agreement (95% exact CI)		(95.6%, 97.7%)	
			

--- Page 14 ---
The overall number of positive MRSA samples by direct culture was 187
(13.3%). The study population in the clinical trial was grouped into subjects in
hospital non-intensive care units (1,007; 71.8%), hospital intensive care units (67;
4.8%) nursing homes/extended care facilities (255; 18.2%), and medical facility
staff (73; 5.2%).
N. Instrument Name:
Roche Molecular Systems LightCycler 2.0
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The instrument operates in batch mode with samples in glass capillaries covered
by plastic stoppers.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes __X____ or No ________
The LightCycler 2.0 instrument is operated through a separate PC connected by
cable. The LightCycler software operates the instrument through the PC. The
complete LightCycler Version 4.1 software documentation was reviewed in this
submission as we consider the 2.0 a new instrument.
The MRSA assay uses an assay specific software module (MAS) to interact with
LC 4.1 software and to calculate results. The complete MAS version 1.2 software
documentation was reviewed in this submission.
In addition, the LightCycler 2.0 instrument falls under 862.2570 Instrumentation
for clinical multiplex test systems regulation and its special controls. The
appropriate product code from this regulation is OOI Real Time Nucleic Acid
Amplification System.
The LightCycler 2.0 instrument also has RUO functionalities that can be used by
end users to develop their own assays. Therefore, we applied the recently devised
Combination RUO/IVD Instrumentation Policy. The company supplied all
required software documentation and the IVD only user manual for review.
3. Specimen Identification:
14

--- Page 15 ---
Specimens are identified by their position in the sample carousel.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen preparation is performed off-line, pipetted into glass capillaries, and
manually loaded into a sample carousel for addition to the LightCycler 2.0.
5. Calibration:
No calibration needed.
6. Quality Control:
The use of quality control material is described in each specific assay package
insert that uses the LightCycler 2.0 instrument.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not Applicable
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
15