
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K092819
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain substantial equivalence for a traditional 510(k) to detect vanA and vanB
genes in rectal swabs and fecal specimens form patients, to screen for VRE
colonization.
C. Measurand:
vanA and vanB genes of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE)
D. Type of Test:
Remel Spectra™ VRE is a selective and differential chromogenic medium
recommended for use in the qualitative detection of gastrointestinal colonization of
vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium and Enterococcus faecalis (VRE)
E. Applicant:
Thermo Fisher Scientific
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Remel Spectra™ VRE Chromogenic VRE Media
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JSO II 21 CFR 866.1700 83 - Microbiology
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JSO			II			21 CFR 866.1700			83 - Microbiology		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
Remel Spectra™ VRE is a selective and differential chromogenic medium,
containing 6 µg/ml of vancomycin, intended for use in the qualitative detection of
gastrointestinal colonization with vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium and
Enterococcus faecalis (VRE) to aid in the prevention and control of VRE in
healthcare settings. The test is performed with rectal swab and fecal specimens
from patients to screen for VRE colonization. Spectra™ VRE is not intended to
diagnose VRE infection or to guide or monitor treatment for infections.
Subculture to non-selective media (e.g. Tryptic Soy Agar with 5% sheep blood) is
needed for further identification, susceptibility testing, and epidemiological
typing.
2. Indication for use:
Remel Spectra™ VRE is a selective and differential chromogenic medium,
containing 6 µg/ml of vancomycin, intended for use in the qualitative detection of
gastrointestinal colonization with vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium and
Enterococcus faecalis (VRE) to aid in the prevention and control of VRE in
healthcare settings. The test is performed with rectal swab and fecal specimens
from patients to screen for VRE colonization. Spectra™ VRE is not intended to
diagnose VRE infection or to guide or monitor treatment for infections.
Subculture to non-selective media (e.g. Tryptic Soy Agar with 5% sheep blood) is
needed for further identification, susceptibility testing, and epidemiological
typing.
3. Special conditions for use statement:
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
Remel Spectra™ VRE is an opaque medium allowing differentiation of vancomycin-
resistant E. faecium from vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis by incorporation of two
chromogens that are targeted by phosphatase and α-galactosidase. The action of these
enzymes on the chromogens results in a build-up of color within the colony. The
presence of phosphatase enzymes in both E. faecium and E. faecalis results in a light
2

--- Page 3 ---
blue or navy blue colony. However, E. faecium also produces α-galactosidase,
resulting in a mix of blue and pink chromophores within the bacterium producing
navy blue, or pink-purple colonies, which are distinguished from the light blue or
blue E. faecalis colonies. Additional antibiotics, in combination with vancomycin,
are present to suppress the growth of competing flora including E. gallinarum and E.
casseliflavus, both of which are intrinsically resistant to vancomycin, possessing the
chromosomally encoded VanC resistance mechanism.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device names
Remel Bile Esculin Azide Agar with 6 µg/ml Vancomycin
2. Predicate K number:
K972359
Comparison with predicate:
Device Comparison:
Characteristic Remel Spectra™ VRE Remel Bile Esculin
Azide with Vancomycin
Similarities
Intended Use Remel Spectra™ VRE is a selective and Remel Bile Esculin Azide Agar
differential chromogenic medium, w/ 6 μg/ml Vancomycin is a
containing 6 µg/ml of vancomycin, solid medium recommended for
recommended for use in the qualitative use in qualitative procedures as
detection of gastrointestinal colonization of a screening method for primary
vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus isolation and presumptive
faecium and Enterococcus faecalis identification of vancomycin-
(VRE) to aid in the prevention and control resistant enterococci (VRE)
of VRE in healthcare settings. The test is from surveillance cultures.
performed with rectal swabs and fecal
specimens from patients to screen for VRE
colonization. Spectra™ VRE is not
intended to diagnose VRE infection or to
guide or monitor treatment for infections.
Subculture to non-selective media (e.g.
Tryptic Soy Agar with 5% sheep blood) is
needed for further identification,
susceptibility testing, and epidemiological
typing.
Inoculation Direct Specimen Direct Specimen
Sample Type Fecal specimens Fecal Specimens
Rectal swabs Urine specimens
Interpretation Manual, visual
Manual, visual
Additional confirmation required
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristic		Remel Spectra™ VRE	Remel Bile Esculin
Azide with Vancomycin	
	Similarities			
Intended Use		Remel Spectra™ VRE is a selective and
differential chromogenic medium,
containing 6 µg/ml of vancomycin,
recommended for use in the qualitative
detection of gastrointestinal colonization of
vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus
faecium and Enterococcus faecalis
(VRE) to aid in the prevention and control
of VRE in healthcare settings. The test is
performed with rectal swabs and fecal
specimens from patients to screen for VRE
colonization. Spectra™ VRE is not
intended to diagnose VRE infection or to
guide or monitor treatment for infections.
Subculture to non-selective media (e.g.
Tryptic Soy Agar with 5% sheep blood) is
needed for further identification,
susceptibility testing, and epidemiological
typing.	Remel Bile Esculin Azide Agar
w/ 6 μg/ml Vancomycin is a
solid medium recommended for
use in qualitative procedures as
a screening method for primary
isolation and presumptive
identification of vancomycin-
resistant enterococci (VRE)
from surveillance cultures.	
Inoculation		Direct Specimen	Direct Specimen	
Sample Type		Fecal specimens
Rectal swabs	Fecal Specimens
Urine specimens	
Interpretation		Manual, visual	Manual, visual
Additional confirmation required	

--- Page 4 ---
Test
Enzymatic Enzymatic
Methodology
Incubation 24 hours 24–48 hours
Differences
Target Phosphatase
Esculin hydrolysis
Enzyme α-galactosidase
Species Positive – Vancomycin-resistant E. faecium Positive – Dark brown to black
Differentiation colonization: Navy blue or purple-pink color around colonies and diffusing
colonies. into the medium.
Positive – Vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis Negative – No blackening of the
colonization: Light blue to blue colonies. media.
Negative – No VRE colonization: No colored
colonies.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not Applicable
L. Test Principle:
Remel Spectra™ VRE is an opaque medium allowing differentiation of vancomycin-
resistant E. faecium from vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis by incorporation of two
chromogens that are targeted by phosphatase and α-galactosidase. The action of these
enzymes on the chromogens results in a build-up of color within the colony. The
presence of phosphatase enzymes in both E. faecium and E. faecalis results in a light
blue or blue colony. However, E. faecium also produces α-galactosidase, resulting in
a mix of blue and pink chromophores within the bacterium producing navy blue or
pink-purple colonies, which are distinguished from the light blue or blue E. faecalis
colonies. Additional antibiotics, in combination with vancomycin, are present to
suppress the growth of competing flora including E. gallinarum and E. casseliflavus,
both of which are intrinsically resistant to vancomycin, possessing the
chromosomally encoded VanC resistance mechanism.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility testing was conducted at four sites on three separate days with
twenty blinded strains of vancomycin-sensitive enterococci and VRE. The
strains produced the expected result with Spectra™ VRE 100% of the time at
24 hours.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Test
Methodology		Enzymatic	Enzymatic	
Incubation		24 hours	24–48 hours	
	Differences			
Target
Enzyme		Phosphatase
α-galactosidase	Esculin hydrolysis	
Species
Differentiation		Positive – Vancomycin-resistant E. faecium
colonization: Navy blue or purple-pink
colonies.
Positive – Vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis
colonization: Light blue to blue colonies.
Negative – No VRE colonization: No colored
colonies.	Positive – Dark brown to black
color around colonies and diffusing
into the medium.
Negative – No blackening of the
media.	

--- Page 5 ---
Clinical Accuracy:
The performance of Spectra™ VRE was evaluated at three geographically
diverse regions of the United States. A total of six hundred twenty three
prospective rectal swabs, and fecal surveillance specimens (yielding 629 data
points) were evaluated. Results from Spectra™ VRE at 24 hours incubation
were compared to results obtained from traditional culture on Bile Esculin
Azide Agar with 6 µg/ml Vancomycin (BEAV) after 48 hours incubation.
Two hundred twenty VRE with minimal inhibitory concentration MICs to
vancomycin of >256 µg/ml were recovered from six hundred twenty three
specimens (191 vancomycin-resistant E. faecium and 29 vancomycin-resistant
E. faecalis). The overall recovery of VRE on Spectra™ VRE at 24 hours was
99.1% (218/220) compared to recovery of 95.5% (210/220) on BEAV at 48
hours.
Suspect isolates of VRE were evaluated using Vitek®2 system and
biochemical tests, and an antibiotic gradient method for determination of
vancomycin MIC. For detection of VRE by colored colonies isolated on
Spectra™ VRE at 24 hours compared to identification and susceptibility
testing as described, the overall agreement was 99.5% (626/629).
VRE Non-VRE
Spectra™ VRE vs. 99.1% 99.8%
identification and (218/220) (408/409)
susceptibility (95% CI = 89.2–98.4%) (95% CI = 98.0–99.7%)
Note : CI = Confidence Interval
Forty perianal swabs (eleven positive and twenty-eight negative) were tested which did not yield a statistically
sound 95% lower bound confidence interval. The results are not included in the data.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	VRE	Non-VRE
Spectra™ VRE vs.
identification and
susceptibility	99.1%
(218/220)
(95% CI = 89.2–98.4%)	99.8%
(408/409)
(95% CI = 98.0–99.7%)

--- Page 6 ---
Spectra™ VRE vs. Conventional Methods
Positive % Agreement Negative % Agreement
VR- 99.0% 99.8%
E. (189/191)a (437/438)b
faecium (95% CI = 96.3–99.9%) (95% CI = 98.7–100%)
VR- 100% 100%
E. (29/29) (600/600)
faecalis (95% CI = 88.1–100%) (95% CI = 99.4–100%)
Note : CI = Confidence Interval
a
One isolate showed expected results at 28 hours and one isolate showed expected results at 48 hours b One isolate
developed pink colonies and was identified as Lactobacillus sp
Challenge Studies
Spectra™ VRE was evaluated with fifty well-characterized strains of
enterococci (vancomycin susceptible and resistant enterococci) from the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Three strains of E. faecium with
vancomycin MICs between 128-1024 µg/ml failed to grow at 24 hours. One
strain of E. faecium with a vancomycin MIC of 16 µg/ml grew and produced
pink-purple colonies.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
All lot numbers of Spectra™ VRE have been tested using the following
quality control organisms and have been found to be acceptable. Quality
control requirements must be performed in accordance with applicable local,
state, and/or federal regulations or accreditation requirements and the
laboratory’ s quality control procedures. If aberrant quality control results are
noted, patient results are not to be reported.
CONTROL INCUBATION RESULTS
Aerobic, 24 h @ Light blue colonies
Enterococcus faecalis ATCC® 33-37°C
51299
Aerobic, 24 h @ Pink-purple colonies
Enterococcus faecium ATCC® 33-37°C
51559
Enterococcus faecalis Aerobic, 24 h @ No growth
ATCC® 29212 33-37°C
d. Detection limit:
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Positive % Agreement	Negative % Agreement
VR-
E.
faecium	99.0%
(189/191)a
(95% CI = 96.3–99.9%)	99.8%
(437/438)b
(95% CI = 98.7–100%)
VR-
E.
faecalis	100%
(29/29)
(95% CI = 88.1–100%)	100%
(600/600)
(95% CI = 99.4–100%)

[Table 2 on page 6]
CONTROL	INCUBATION	RESULTS
Enterococcus faecalis ATCC®
51299	Aerobic, 24 h @
33-37°C	Light blue colonies
Enterococcus faecium ATCC®
51559	Aerobic, 24 h @
33-37°C	Pink-purple colonies
Enterococcus faecalis
ATCC® 29212	Aerobic, 24 h @
33-37°C	No growth

--- Page 7 ---
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity Study
Two hundred twenty-nine (229) microorganisms representing gram-negative
rods, yeast, streptococci, enterococci, staphylococci, and related organisms
were evaluated with Spectra™ VRE. Six of eleven KPC-producing Klebsiella
pneumoniae developed large blue colonies on Spectra™ VRE at 24 hours. No
other cross reactivity was observed following 24 hours incubation.
The study results are reflected in the Limitation and Cross Reactivity sections
of the device package insert.
Interference Study
The following substances were evaluated for potential interference of the
chromogenic reaction of Spectra™ VRE. These substances were tested in
combination with vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis and E. faecium isolates at a
concentration of 50 CFU: blood, mucous, MYLANTA® Maximum Strength,
Pepto-Bismol®, Imodium® A-D, Kaopectate®, Fletcher’s Castoria®, PEPCID®
AC Maximum Strength, Tagamet HB 200®, Prilosec OTC®, vancomycin,
metronidazole, barium sulfate, Preparation H®, petroleum jelly, glycerin,
bisacodyl, witch hazel, miconazole, nonoxynol-9, KY® Jelly. Hydrocortisone
acetate was not evaluated. Blood, Pepto-Bismol®, glycerin, vancomycin,
miconazole, and Preparation H® may reduce the recovery of vancomycin
resistant E. faecalis and E. faecium strains.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Spectra™ VRE was compared to culture on Bile Esculin Azide with 6 µg/ml
Vancomycin, with subsequent identification and susceptibility testing. There
was 82.7% (520/629) agreement with six hundred twenty-nine isolates. The
Bile Esculin Azide with 6µg/ml Vancomycin demonstrated 95.5% (210/220)
agreement for the recovery of VRE (acquired resistance) and 75.8% (310/409)
agreement for non-VRE.
b. Matrix comparison: Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity: Not Applicable
7

--- Page 8 ---
b. Clinical specificity: Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Information collected by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention during
2006 and 2007 showed that enterococci caused about 1 of every 8 infections in
hospitals, with roughly 30% of isolates resistant to vancomycin (i.e. VRE). VRE
are the third leading cause of hospital-acquired infection. Hospital-acquired
enterococcal infections typically occur in very ill or debilitated patients who have
been exposed to broad-spectrum antibiotics. They are also the third most
common cause of hospital-acquired bloodstream infections in the U.S. The overall
prevalence rate of VRE colonization in this study was 35%.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8