
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k092993
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification materials
D. Type of Test:
N/A
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ADVIA Centaur Cyclosporine Master Curve Material
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660 Single, specified controls (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ADVIA Centaur® Cyclosporine Master Curve Material is for in vitro
diagnostic use in the verification of calibration and reportable range in the
ADVIA Centaur® Cyclosporine (CsA) assay.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
ADVIA Centaur® Systems
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur® Cyclosporine Master Curve Material are 5 level human serum
based solutions containing varying concentrations of cyclosporine in human serum,
detergents, glycerol, anti-foam and preservatives. The Cyclosporine Master Curve
Materials have expected values (lot specific) of approximately 0, 100, 500, 900 and
1400 ng/mL. The Cyclosporine Master Curve Material (1.0 mL/vial) is liquid and
ready to use. Storage is at 2 -8º C.
The labeling contains the following information:
“Contains human source material. While each human serum or plasma donor unit
used in the manufacture of this product was tested by FDA-approved methods and
found nonreactive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), antibody to hepatitis C
(HCV) and antibody to HIV-1/2, all products manufactured using human source
material should be handled as potentially infectious. Because no test method can
offer complete assurance that hepatitis B or C viruses, HIV, or other infectious agents
are absent, these products should be handled according to established good laboratory
practices.”
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VALIDATE Thyroid Calibration Verification Test Set
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k062501
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use For in vitro diagnostic use For in vitro diagnostic
in the verification of use in the quantitative
calibration and reportable determination of
range in the ADVIA linearity, calibration
Centaur Cyclosporine verification, and
Assay verification of reportable
range in automated,
semi-automated and
manual chemistry
systems
Form liquid liquid
Storage 2 -8º C -10 to -20 º C
Matrix human serum human serum
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyte list Cyclosporine only Multi-analytes including
triiodothyronine,
thyroxine, TSH and
cortisol
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			For in vitro diagnostic use
in the verification of
calibration and reportable
range in the ADVIA
Centaur Cyclosporine
Assay			For in vitro diagnostic
use in the quantitative
determination of
linearity, calibration
verification, and
verification of reportable
range in automated,
semi-automated and
manual chemistry
systems		
Form			liquid			liquid		
Storage			2 -8º C			-10 to -20 º C		
Matrix			human serum			human serum		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte list			Cyclosporine only			Multi-analytes including
triiodothyronine,
thyroxine, TSH and
cortisol		

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Master Curve Material is traceable to an internal standard manufactured
using USP grade cyclosporine.
The ADVIA Centaur® Cyclosporine Master Curve Material is prepared
utilizing various amounts of a cyclosporine positive stock solution and
negative basepool. The assigned values are established by comparison studies
to a reference lot of master curve materials using the ADVIA Centaur
Cyclosporine Assay. Value assignment is performed using one ADVIA
Centaur instrument with one lot of ADVIA Centaur Cyclosporine reagent
assaying the material and reference material in multiple replicates and
multiple runs. The within run CV of the 20 replicates met the sponsor’s
acceptance criteria of ≤ 8%. The acceptance criteria of the test lot assigned
value to the reference lot met the acceptance criteria of ± 15 %. The ranges for
the assigned values were established by calculating ± 25 % of the assigned
value.
The labeling includes a statement that if results do not fall within expected
values, technical support should be contacted.
The protocol for establishing shelf-life for the Master Curve Material was
reviewed and is adequate. The shelf stability is 2 years when properly stored
at 2-8 º C. Open stability was established to be up to 21 weeks when stored at
2-8 º C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
4

--- Page 5 ---
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Lot specific target values are provided in the labeling.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5