
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K092223
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
BinaxNOW Influenza A & B – K062109
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
3. The modification of the device consisted of expanded reactivity table to include reactivity information
for 2009 H1N1 Influenza strains: A/California/04/2009, A/Auckland/1/2009 and A/Auckland/3/2009.
This modification has not had any effect or caused any changes to the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC
TECHNOLOGY of this device.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences):
Parameter Device Predicate
Expanded Claim BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Test BinaxNOW Influenza
A & B Test
510(k) Number K062109
INTENDED USE Detection of Influenza A & B antigens in nasopharyng Same
swab, nasal swab and nasal wash/aspirate specimens
ANALYTE Differentiated detection of influenza A & B Same
nucleoprotein antigens
SPECIMEN TYPE Nasopharyngeal swab, nasal swab and nasal Same
wash/aspirate specimens
5. Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
Not applicable to Class I devices.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.

[Table 1 on page 1]
Parameter	Device
Expanded Claim BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Test	Predicate
BinaxNOW Influenza
A & B Test
510(k) Number K062109	
INTENDED USE	Detection of Influenza A & B antigens in nasopharyn
swab, nasal swab and nasal wash/aspirate specimens	g Same	
ANALYTE	Differentiated detection of influenza A & B
nucleoprotein antigens	Same	
SPECIMEN TYPE	Nasopharyngeal swab, nasal swab and nasal
wash/aspirate specimens	Same	

[Table 2 on page 1]
Device
Expanded Claim BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Test