
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k092749
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for parathyroid hormone (PTH) determinations
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Microgenics Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Specialty Diagnostics Division
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquid Assayed PTH Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR§862.1660
2. Classification:
Class I (Reserved)
3. Product code:
JJX - Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
MAS® PTH Control is intended for use in the clinical laboratory as a consistent
test sample of known concentration for monitoring assay conditions in many
Parathyroid hormone (PTH) determinations. Include PTH Control with patient
serum specimens when assaying for Parathyroid hormones. Assay values are
provided for the specific systems listed. The user can compare observations with
expected ranges as a means of assuring consistent performance of reagent and
instrument.
Moni-Trol® PTH Control is intended for use in the clinical laboratory as a
consistent test sample of known concentration for monitoring assay conditions in
many Parathyroid hormone (PTH) determinations. Include PTH Control with
patient serum specimens when assaying for Parathyroid hormones. Assay values
are provided for the specific systems listed. The user can compare observations
with expected ranges as a means of assuring consistent performance of reagent
and instrument.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use above.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Roche Cobas 6000; Roche Elecsys; Roche Modular E170; Siemens Immulite
I. Device Description:
The MAS® PTH Control and Moni-Trol® PTH Control are liquid stable control
materials prepared from human serum. Components of the controls which are
derived from human source material have been tested using FDA accepted
methods and found non-reactive for Hepatitis B Surface antigen (HBsAg),
Hepatitis C (HCV), HIV-1 and HIV-2. Analyte levels are adjusted with various
pure chemicals and preparations from human tissue or bodily fluids. Preservatives
and stabilizers are added to maintain product integrity. Three levels of control are
available and are provided ready to use. Each kit will contain 6 vials each: 2 vials
of Level 1, 2 vials of Level 2, and 2 vials of Level 3. Each vial contains 3 mLs.
The MAS and Moni-Trol products are the same.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Liquichek™ Specialty Immunoassay Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k04310
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities:
Predicate Device, K043108 Proposed new device K092749
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls MAS® PTH Control and Moni-
Trol® PTH Control
Intended Use For use as quality control serum MAS® PTH and Moni-Trol ®
to monitor the precision of PTH Control are intended for use
laboratory testing procedures in the clinical laboratory as a
listed in the package insert. consistent test sample of known
concentration for monitoring
assay conditions in many
Parathyroid hormone (PTH)
determinations. Include PTH
Control with patient serum
specimens when assaying for
Parathyroid hormones. Assay
values are provided for the
specific systems listed. The user
can compare observations with
expected ranges as a means of
assuring consistent performance
of reagent and instrument.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Predicate Device, K043108
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls		Proposed new device K092749	
			MAS® PTH Control and Moni-	
			Trol® PTH Control	
Intended Use	For use as quality control serum
to monitor the precision of
laboratory testing procedures
listed in the package insert.	MAS® PTH and Moni-Trol ®
PTH Control are intended for use
in the clinical laboratory as a
consistent test sample of known
concentration for monitoring
assay conditions in many
Parathyroid hormone (PTH)
determinations. Include PTH
Control with patient serum
specimens when assaying for
Parathyroid hormones. Assay
values are provided for the
specific systems listed. The user
can compare observations with
expected ranges as a means of
assuring consistent performance
of reagent and instrument.		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Predicate Device, K043108
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls

--- Page 3 ---
Description of This product is prepared from This product is a liquid stable
device human serum with added control material prepared from
constituents, chemicals, human serum. Analyte levels are
stabilizers, and preservatives. adjusted with various pure
chemicals and preparations from
human tissue or bodily fluids.
Preservatives and stabilizers are
added to maintain product
integrity.
Matrix Human Serum Same
Form Liquid Same
Open Vial 30 days at 2-8°C with exceptions 30 days when stored tightly
Stability capped at 2-8°C
Analytes Anti-Tg Anti-TPO C-Peptide PTH
Erythropoietin Intact PTH IGF-I
Osteocalcin 25-OH Vitamin D
Differences:
Proposed new device,
Predicate Device, K043108
K092749 MAS® PTH Control
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls
and Moni-Trol® PTH Control
-20°C to -70°C until -25°C to -15°C until
Storage
expiration date on the label expiration date on the label
Condition
30 days at 2-8°C with 90 days when stored tightly
Closed Vial
exceptions capped at 2-8°C
Stability
Levels and Level 1: ~30 pg/mL Level 2: ~ Level 1: 15 pg/mL
targets 200 pg/mL Level 3: ~600 Level 2: 200 pg/mL
pg/mL (estimated from value Level 3: 400 pg/mL
assignment data in BioRad PI)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Description of
device	This product is prepared from
human serum with added
constituents, chemicals,
stabilizers, and preservatives.	This product is a liquid stable
control material prepared from
human serum. Analyte levels are
adjusted with various pure
chemicals and preparations from
human tissue or bodily fluids.
Preservatives and stabilizers are
added to maintain product
integrity.
Matrix	Human Serum	Same
Form	Liquid	Same
Open Vial
Stability	30 days at 2-8°C with exceptions	30 days when stored tightly
capped at 2-8°C
Analytes	Anti-Tg Anti-TPO C-Peptide
Erythropoietin Intact PTH IGF-I
Osteocalcin 25-OH Vitamin D	PTH

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Predicate Device, K043108
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls		Proposed new device,	
			K092749 MAS® PTH Control	
			and Moni-Trol® PTH Control	
Storage
Condition	-20°C to -70°C until
expiration date on the label	-25°C to -15°C until
expiration date on the label		
Closed Vial
Stability	30 days at 2-8°C with
exceptions	90 days when stored tightly
capped at 2-8°C		
Levels and
targets	Level 1: ~30 pg/mL Level 2: ~
200 pg/mL Level 3: ~600
pg/mL (estimated from value
assignment data in BioRad PI)	Level 1: 15 pg/mL
Level 2: 200 pg/mL
Level 3: 400 pg/mL		

[Table 4 on page 3]
Predicate Device, K043108
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Controls

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The stability studies were performed using the Roche COBAS PTH reagents
on the Roche Elecsys 2010 analyser. All studies that were performed were
done so using three lots of the control material.
Open vial stability:
Three lots of PTH control, each lot at three different levels were used. For
each lot and level vials were opened on day 0, stored at 5°C, and tested at
different time points for up to 42 days.
The recommended claim based on the data is 30 days at 2 - 8°C.
Closed vial stability:
Three lots of PTH control, each lot at three different levels were used. For
each lot and level, unopened vials were stored at 5°C, and tested at multiple
time points for up to 90 days.
The recommended claim based on the data is 90 days at 2 - 8°C.
Shelf-Life stability:
The Arrhenius model was applied using stress data to establish the frozen -
20°C shelf life claim. Three lots, each lot at three different levels were used
for the study. For each lot and level, product was stressed at elevated
temperatures of 41°C and 37°C for 14 days, and 25°C for 28 days. Multiple
time points were tested and point of failure was determined by linear
regression. The recommended claim based on the data is 24 months frozen at
-20°C.
Value assignment:
Value assignment ranges are established 20% around the mean. Control
ranges are provided as guidelines until the laboratory has established its own
statistical limits. The values are based on replicate assays of representative
samples by participating laboratories in accordance with established protocol.
Twenty replicates per level per analyte over a period of 10 days were run on 4
instruments. Means established by individual laboratories should fall within
the corresponding acceptable range. It is recommended that each laboratory
establish its own means and acceptable ranges and use those provided only as
guides.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5