
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K092705
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of m2000 system
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Abbott m2000 system consisting of the m2000sp and m2000rt instruments
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Real-Time PCR
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Abbott m2000 System is an instrument platform that automates steps to
perform nucleic acid amplification assays from sample processing through
amplification, detection, and data reduction. The Abbott m2000 System comprises
the m2000sp and m2000rt instruments, which are operated with separate System
Control Center (SCC) workstations. Each instrument contains an independent
software application; one for the m2000sp and a second for the m2000rt. The
m2000sp instrument is a floor standing, automated sample preparation system.
The m 2000rt instrument is a real-time PCR thermal cycler/reader instrument
system. Abbott Molecular is the manufacturer of the m2000 System. The
principal hardware components that comprise the m2000sp and m2000rt were
developed by Original Equipment Manufacturer vendors, Tecan Schweiz AG,
Mannedorf, Switzerland, and Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, respectively.
Abbott Molecular developed the software that is uniquely for use with the m2000
System. The Abbott m2000 System software processes sample preparation and
amplification/detection protocols based on pre-determined, assay-specific
parameters that are contained in individual assay application specification files
that are installed on the SCC. The Abbott m2000sp reads and processes bar coded
primary sample tubes and processes up to 96 specimens, controls, and calibrators
in batch mode. The m2000 System is capable of processing samples from various
matrices, depending on the specific assay application. At the completion of the
automated sample preparation protocol, the operator seals and manually transfers
the PCR plate to the Abbott m2000rt for nucleic acid detection. Bar code and

--- Page 2 ---
m2000 sp data is transferred to the m2000rt electronically via removable media
(i.e., a CD).
2. Principles of Operation:
The m2000sp
The sample preparation process consists of releasing the nucleic acid target from
its native biological source (e.g., lysis of microorganisms) using chaotropic
nucleic acid extraction technology, binding of nucleic acids to a solid phase (i.e.,
magnetic particles) using silica or iron oxide nucleic acid chemistry, separation of
the solid phase from the residual lysis solution using magnetic separation
technology, washing to remove unwanted materials, and elution or separation of
nucleic acid from the solid phase using conventional fluid handling technology.
The m2000rt
The Abbott m2000rt is an amplification/detection system that provides real-time
PCR technology with fluorescence capability of up to five distinct dyes per
reaction. PCR amplifies specific target DNA sequences through the use of
reagents containing target-specific oligonucleotide sequences (or primers),
individual nucleic acid triphosphate bases and polymerase enzymes. RNA target
sequences must first be converted to complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences
before PCR can occur. The system provides thermal cycling temperature control
(the process of cycling the reaction mixture between high and low temperatures)
with optical read capability for every cycle throughout the amplification protocol.
Temperature control for assay reactions is accomplished by heating or cooling all
sample wells in the thermal cycler simultaneously per the assay-specific protocol.
The block heating and cooling is controlled by Peltier assemblies in thermal
contact with the block. Through the process of thermal cycling, the reagents
replicate the target nucleic acid sequence many-fold. Multiple target sequences
can be amplified in the same reaction by including the appropriate combination of
target specific oligonucleotide primer sequences.
The heated lid assembly is held at a high, constant temperature to prevent
condensation on the plate lid. The heated lid assembly also contains optical
elements to aid in collection of fluorescent light and suppression of light coming
from areas other than individual wells.
Detection of fluorescent dyes in the reaction is accomplished by simultaneously
illuminating all wells in the plate using the tungsten-halogen lamp. Light from the
tungsten-halogen lamp is directed through an excitation filter and dichroic
beamsplitter onto the PCR plate, held securely in place in the thermal block. The
excitation light excites fluorescent dyes in each well of the PCR plate. The
emitted fluorescence light passes through the dichroic beamsplitter and an
emission filter and is detected by a charge coupled device (CCD) camera.

--- Page 3 ---
The optical filters inside the m2000rt are arranged in five excitation/emission
filter pairs. The excitation and emission center wavelength and bandpass are
designed to preferentially excite individual dyes in the reaction mixture. The filter
wheel assembly is indexed during the read process to measure fluorescence
through each of the five filter pairs. Up to five dye signals may be monitored in
each sample well of the PCR plate. The thermal and optical detection system is
under computer control and monitored for proper operation.
An optical reading consists of a set of five fluorescence intensity measurements
by a CCD camera, one for each of the five filter assembly modules (positioned on
a five-position rotating assembly). The five pairs of filters are calibrated for their
response to each dye used in the assay using calibration dye plates. The choice of
filters allows for the use of the following dyes on the system: FAM™, SYBR®
Green, VIC®, NED™, TAMRA™, JOE™, ROX™, and CY™5. A typical
amplification/detection protocol for a DNA assay lasts about 120 minutes. RNA
assays run about 30 minutes longer due to the reverse transcription step.
3. Modes of Operation:
The Abbott m2000 System is an automated, open tube, batch analyzer. Samples
are prepared for nucleic acid testing by the m2000sp through user initiated
protocols run on the m2000sp liquid handling platform using specific reagents.
Using the m2000sp software, users can select a Master Mix addition protocol to
automatically distribute the assay reagents and extracted nucleic acid specimens
into an Abbott 96-Well Optical Reaction plate, which must be manually loaded
onto the m2000rt instrument. Sample IDs and processing status for each specimen
are electronically transferred to the m2000rt from the m2000sp and linked to the
PCR plate ID. The samples are then amplified and analyzed by the m2000rt
through fluorescent-based real-time PCR using a user initiated protocol associated
with the sample preparation protocol run on the m2000sp selected by plate ID.
The specific protocols that are performed on each instrument for IVD assays
depend upon the assay-specific, closed-mode application specifications that are
installed on the System. For closed mode assays, the assay protocol selected when
initiating the m2000sp run automatically establishes the protocol to be run on the
m2000rt system. The m2000sp and m2000rt instruments are also capable of
performing laboratory-defined (user-validated) applications. The m2000sp
instrument is capable of performing sample extractions for open-mode protocols.
The m2000rt instrument is capable of PCR thermal cycling and real-time reading
for laboratory-defined applications. Any special requirements or system
restrictions for specific open-mode protocols would be communicated upon
installation of the protocol. The FDA is not reviewing, clearing or approving any
of the open-mode/laboratory-defined functionalities and requires documentation
and evidence that these functionalities do not interfere with IVD functionalities.

--- Page 4 ---
4. Specimen Identification:
Samples are identified by the bar code label on the primary sample tube, which is
read by the m2000sp Positive ID Bar Code Reader (PosID). The system identifies
the location of the sample by reading the bar coded sample rack ID and the bar
coded sample tube IDs as a function of the positions in the rack. The sample
location and sample ID map are then electronically transferred to the m2000rt
linked to the PCR plate ID, along with reagent data and the prepared PCR plate.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specific mixing protocols depend on the application specifications of the assay
being used on the m2000 System. Mixing, if necessary, is performed by pipetting
using the Liquid Handling Arm (LiHa). The LiHa pipettes, dilutes, and mixes
samples and reagents by aspirating and dispensing liquid through eight different
channels, using disposable tips (DiTis).
Specimens are sampled by direct open tube and transferred automatically by the
LiHa from the sample input tubes to Reaction vessels (RVs) in the 1 mL
subsystem, then to the output plates of the m2000sp. Sample input tubes can be
primary tubes or secondary aliquot tubes.
6. Calibration:
The calibration for the m2000 system consists of an assay independent optical
calibration and an assay specific assay calibration, each described below.
Abbott m2000rt Optical Calibration
The m2000rt instrument extracts dye fluorescence data from digital images. Four
sets of optical calibration data are used in this data extraction process:
• Region of Interest (ROI) data, specifying what portions of the digital
images correspond to the 96 reaction wells of the PCR plate.
• Background fluorescence data, indicating the signal from each well with
no fluorescent dye present.
• Pure dye spectral data, indicating the relative signal intensity for the five
optical filter channels when fluorescence of a single pure dye is
measured.
• Uniformity data, indicating the signal intensity of a given well relative to
the other wells for a uniform plate.
These optical data sets are acquired during the optical calibration process. Their
execution involves using the Abbott m2000rt Optical Calibration Kit, List No.
4J71-93. This kit contains ten 96-well PCR plates as follows:

--- Page 5 ---
• A ROI calibration plate, with five dyes in each well. This is used for
both the ROI calibration and the uniformity calibration.
• A background plate, with non-fluorescent buffer in each well. Water or
diluent in a normal PCR plate may also be used for background
calibrations.
• Eight pure dye calibration plates, each with wells filled with a specific
dye (FAM, VIC, NED, ROX, Cy5, SYBR, JOE, or TAMRA), used for
the pure dye spectral calibration.
Optical calibrations are performed at installation, when the lamp is changed, and
after six months. Background calibrations are also performed monthly.
Assay Calibration
Abbott RealTime assays are calibrated by processing calibrators as samples on the
m2000sp and m2000rt instrument.
Quantitative assays require between two and ten calibrators, as specified by the
assay, to yield a log-linear calibration curve (cycle number vs. log of calibrator
concentration). Quantitative calibration curves must satisfy slope and y-intercept
validity criteria specified for each assay. Assays must be recalibrated for each lot
of assay reagents and as directed by assay reagent labeling.
Qualitative assays use cutoff controls with each batch of samples, from which the
qualitative criteria are determined. The number of valid cutoff controls and mean
cutoff control cycle number must meet validity criteria specified by the assay.
7. Quality Control:
Quality control is addressed for each separately cleared specific assay to be run on
the instrument.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.2570 Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems

--- Page 6 ---
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
OOI (Real-Time Nucleic Acid Amplification System) for rt instrument.
JJH (Clinical Sample Concentrator) for sp instrument.
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Abbott m2000 system is intended for in vitro diagnostic use in performing
FDA cleared and approved nucleic acid testing in clinical laboratories. It
comprises the Abbott m2000sp and the Abbott m2000rt instruments. The Abbott
m2000sp is an automated system for performing sample preparation for nucleic
acid testing. The Abbott m2000rt is an automated system for performing
fluorescence-based PCR to provide quantitative and qualitative detection of
nucleic acid sequences.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Roche COBAS TaqMan Analyzer (K012966) for the m2000rt. The m2000sp
instrument is considered an accessory device to the rt instrument since it
automates sample preparation.
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The Abbott m2000 Fully automated
system is intended for in amplification and
vitro diagnostic use in detection system for
performing FDA cleared nucleic acids using 5´-
and approved nucleic nuclease technology.

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Abbott m2000
system is intended for in
vitro diagnostic use in
performing FDA cleared
and approved nucleic			Fully automated
amplification and
detection system for
nucleic acids using 5´-
nuclease technology.		

--- Page 7 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
acid testing in clinical Intended for use by
laboratories. It comprises laboratory professionals
the Abbott m2000sp and trained in laboratory
the Abbott m2000rt techniques and on the use
instruments. The Abbott of the analyzer
m2000sp is an automated
system for performing
sample preparation for
nucleic acid testing. The
Abbott m2000rt is an
automated system for
performing fluorescence-
based PCR to provide
quantitative and
qualitative detection of
nucleic acid sequences.
Assay Format Homogeneous, closed Homogeneous, closed
tube PCR tube PCR
Degree of Automation Requires manual transfer Requires manual transfer
of amplification mixture of amplification mixture
to amplification/detection to amplification/detection
instrument instrument
Automated control of Automated control of
amplification, detection, amplification, detection,
and data analysis and data analysis
Primary Operational Integrated thermocycler Integrated thermocycler
Amplification and and microvolume and microvolume
Detection Components fluorimeter for walk fluorimeter for walk away
away PCR amplification PCR amplification and
and detection detection
Heating Method for Peltier device with Peltier device with sample
Amplification sample block block
Detection Procedure Optical detection of Optical detection of
stimulated fluorescence stimulated fluorescence
Detection Chemistries Fluorescence labeled, Fluorescence labeled,
target-specific probes target-specific probes
User Interface PC with instrument- PC with instrument-
specific software specific software

[Table 1 on page 7]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			acid testing in clinical
laboratories. It comprises
the Abbott m2000sp and
the Abbott m2000rt
instruments. The Abbott
m2000sp is an automated
system for performing
sample preparation for
nucleic acid testing. The
Abbott m2000rt is an
automated system for
performing fluorescence-
based PCR to provide
quantitative and
qualitative detection of
nucleic acid sequences.			Intended for use by
laboratory professionals
trained in laboratory
techniques and on the use
of the analyzer		
Assay Format			Homogeneous, closed
tube PCR			Homogeneous, closed
tube PCR		
Degree of Automation			Requires manual transfer
of amplification mixture
to amplification/detection
instrument
Automated control of
amplification, detection,
and data analysis			Requires manual transfer
of amplification mixture
to amplification/detection
instrument
Automated control of
amplification, detection,
and data analysis		
Primary Operational
Amplification and
Detection Components			Integrated thermocycler
and microvolume
fluorimeter for walk
away PCR amplification
and detection			Integrated thermocycler
and microvolume
fluorimeter for walk away
PCR amplification and
detection		
Heating Method for
Amplification			Peltier device with
sample block			Peltier device with sample
block		
Detection Procedure			Optical detection of
stimulated fluorescence			Optical detection of
stimulated fluorescence		
Detection Chemistries			Fluorescence labeled,
target-specific probes			Fluorescence labeled,
target-specific probes		
User Interface			PC with instrument-
specific software			PC with instrument-
specific software		

--- Page 8 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Amplification Reaction 25-100 μL in 96-well 100 μL in 200 μL K-
Volume PCR plates tubes
Sample Preparation Pairing with the m2000sp No automated sample
instrument provides processing instrument
automated sample offered in conjunction
processing. with COBAS TaqMan
Analyzer.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex
Test Systems:
http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/GuidanceDocum
ents/ucm077819.htm
J. Performance Characteristics:
All assay analytical and clinical testing was reviewed in K092704. This submission
is linked to the assay data presented there.
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K092704) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision/Reproducibility was assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K092704) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
c. Linearity:
N/A since CT/NG is a qualitative assay.
d. Carryover:
Carryover was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K092704) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
e. Interfering Substances:
Interfering Substances were assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K092704) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:

[Table 1 on page 8]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Amplification Reaction
Volume			25-100 μL in 96-well
PCR plates			100 μL in 200 μL K-
tubes		
Sample Preparation			Pairing with the m2000sp
instrument provides
automated sample
processing.			No automated sample
processing instrument
offered in conjunction
with COBAS TaqMan
Analyzer.		

--- Page 9 ---
Fluid Pipetting Performance Testing
Requirements for fluid pipetting are stated in product requirements SPS4, SPS5,
SPS6, and SPS7, found in MD0036 “m2000 Instrument System Product
Requirements Document”:
• Accuracy within ± 8% for 25 to 49 µL and within ± 5% for 50 to 900
µL, using 1000 µL pipette tips (SPS4)
• Accuracy within ± 8% for 10 to 49 µL and within ± 5% for 50 to 150
µL, using 200 µL pipette tips (SPS5)
• Precision < 1.0% coefficient of variation (CV) for 100 µL dispenses
using 1000 µL pipette tips (SPS6)
• Precision < 0.75% CV for 100 µL dispenses and 3.5% CV for 10 µL
dispenses using 200 µL pipette tips (SPS7)
Satisfaction of these requirements was demonstrated by functional testing of the
m2000 instrument, performed by Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM),
Tecan Schweiz AG. Testing was performed with water at room temperature.
Tecan also verified positioning accuracy within ± 0.4 mm. Verification is
documented in MD12502 m2000 Instrument System Revision 3.0 Design
Verification Record – Tecan m2000 sp EVO Verification.
Thermal Cycler Performance Testing
Functional design verification testing demonstrated that the m2000 rt design
satisfies its design input requirements for thermal accuracy and uniformity, which
are found in MD0036 “m2000 Instrument System Product Requirements
Document”:
• Thermal block temperature accuracy within ± 0.5°C from setpoint,
specified in product requirement ADH2 (MD0036)
• Thermal block well temperature nonuniformity within ± 0.5°C range
within 30 seconds of reaching hold state, specified in product
requirement ADH4 (MD0036)
Optical Detection Verification
Performance requirements for optical detection are stated in the Abbott m2000
product requirements and in the technical requirements for the Abbott m2000rt
reader specific to the vendor (design specification document MD10085 “m2000
Instrument System Design Specifications – Airjuice Thermalcycler Reader
Technical Requirements,”). These requirements include:

--- Page 10 ---
• Dynamic range sufficient to measure fluorescence of 100 µL of
selected dyes over concentration range of 10 nM to 200 nM at
temperature range of 35 to 65° C, specified in product requirement
ADH15 (MD0036)
• Linearity such that the square of the correlation coefficient (r 2)
exceeds 0.95 over the dye concentration range, specified in technical
requirement FD.4.1 and FD.4.2 (MD10085)
• Cycle-to-cycle signal variability not exceeding 1.0% of the average
signal in any well, specified in technical requirement FD.5.1
(MD10085)
• Signal drift not exceeding 1.0% over a one hour period, specified in
technical requirement FD.5.2 (MD10085)
• Run-to-run signal variability not exceeding 5% of the average signal in
any well, specified in technical requirement FD.5.3 (MD10085)
• Measurement reliability such that instances of measurements outside a
± 5 standard deviation range are less than 1 per 50,000 measurements,
specified in technical requirement FD.5.4 (MD10085)
Satisfaction of these requirements was demonstrated by performance testing
executed by Applied Biosystems, documented in their verification testing records.
Vendor verification testing records are cited by Abbott design verification records
as summarized in MD10122 "m2000 Instrument Systems Initial Development
Design Verification Summary Report."
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.