
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K092423
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Remel Xpect Flu A&B Test – K031565.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
3. The modification of the device consisted of expanded reactivity table to include reactivity information
for 2009 H1N1 Influenza strain A/California/04/2009. This modification has not had any effect or
caused any changes to the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of this device.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences):
Parameter Device Predicate
Additional Reactivity Claim Remel Xpect Flu Remel Xpect Flu A&B
A&B 510(k) Number K031565
INTENDED USE Remel Xpect® Flu A&B is a rapid in vitro Same
immunochromatographic test for the direct,
qualitative detection of influenza A and influenza
B viral antigens (nucleoprotein) from nasal wash,
nasal swab, and throat swab specimens from
symptomatic patients. The test is intended as an aid
in the rapid diagnosis of influenza A and influenza
B viral infections. Negative tests should be
confirmed by cell culture.
ANALYTE Differentiated detection of influenza A & B Same
nucleoprotein antigens
TECHNOLOGY Lateral flow immunochromatographic membrane Same
assay
SPECIMEN TYPE Nasal wash, nasal swab, and throat swab Same
specimens.
5. Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
Not applicable.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.

[Table 1 on page 1]
Parameter		Device		Predicate
Remel Xpect Flu A&B
510(k) Number K031565
		Additional Reactivity Claim Remel Xpect Flu		
		A&B		
				
INTENDED USE	Remel Xpect® Flu A&B is a rapid in vitro
immunochromatographic test for the direct,
qualitative detection of influenza A and influenza
B viral antigens (nucleoprotein) from nasal wash,
nasal swab, and throat swab specimens from
symptomatic patients. The test is intended as an aid
in the rapid diagnosis of influenza A and influenza
B viral infections. Negative tests should be
confirmed by cell culture.			Same
ANALYTE	Differentiated detection of influenza A & B
nucleoprotein antigens			Same
TECHNOLOGY	Lateral flow immunochromatographic membrane
assay			Same
SPECIMEN TYPE	Nasal wash, nasal swab, and throat swab
specimens.			Same