
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k092113
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Free Protein S
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative immuno-turbidimetric method
E Applicant:
DIAGNOSTICA STAGO, INC.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
STA® - Free PS Calibrator
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX, Calibrator, Multi-Analyte Mixture
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is a set of calibrator plasmas intended for use with
analyzers of the STA® line suitable to these reagents for the calibration of free
protein S assays by the immuno-turbidimetric method, STA® - Liatest® Free PS.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only
4. Special instrument requirements:
STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is for use with the STA® - Liatest® Free PS kit and
STA® product line of IVD analyzers (STA-R® and STA Compact®).
I. Device Description:
The STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is a set of lyophilized human plasmas used to
create the calibration curve on an IVD instrument performing the immuno-
turbidimetric method for free protein S assay, STA® - Liatest®Free PS. Such IVD
instruments being the STA® product line of medical device analyzers such as STA-
R® and STA Compact®. The calibrator kit consists of four (4) calibrators. Each
calibrator is composed of lyophilized human plasma containing a well defined
quantity of free protein S, buffer, and stabilizers.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
HemosIL™ Calibration Plasma
2. Predicate K number(s):
k041905
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item STA® - Free PS Calibrator HemosIL™
Calibration Plasma
Intended Use STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is a HemosIL Calibration Plasma is
set of calibrator plasmas intended intended for the calibration of
for use with analyzers of the STA® coagulation assays on IL and
line suitable to these reagents for ELECTRA coagulation
the calibration of free protein S systems.
assays by the immuno-turbidimetric
method, STA® - Liatest® Free PS
Parameters Free Protein S Protein S
Design Lyophilized human plasma Same
reconstituted with water used in
IVD analyzers
Storage 2-8°C Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Instrumentation STA-R® and STA Compact® IL and ELECTRA coagulation
systems.
Parameters Antithrombin, Single Factors,
Fibrinogen, Plasmin Inhibitor,
Plasminogen, von Willebrand
Factor, Protein C, PT, APTT,
TT
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
Protein S is a physiological inhibitor of the coagulation process. It acts as the cofactor
of activated protein C. The congenital or acquired deficiency of protein S increases
the risk of thrombo-embolism. The STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is a set of
lyophilized human plasmas used to create the calibration curve on an IVD instrument
performing the immuno-turbidimetric method for free protein S assays.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The free protein S level determinations were performed in eight different
series on each calibrator level with the same instrument (STA-R®) using two
different lots of STA® - Liatest® Free PS kit. Concurrently, the free protein S
level determinations were also performed in eight different series on each
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities				
Item	STA® - Free PS Calibrator		HemosIL™	
			Calibration Plasma	
Intended Use	STA® - Free PS Calibrator kit is a
set of calibrator plasmas intended
for use with analyzers of the STA®
line suitable to these reagents for
the calibration of free protein S
assays by the immuno-turbidimetric
method, STA® - Liatest® Free PS	HemosIL Calibration Plasma is
intended for the calibration of
coagulation assays on IL and
ELECTRA coagulation
systems.		
Parameters	Free Protein S	Protein S		
Design	Lyophilized human plasma
reconstituted with water used in
IVD analyzers	Same		
Storage	2-8°C	Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Instrumentation			STA-R® and STA Compact®			IL and ELECTRA coagulation
systems.		
Parameters						Antithrombin, Single Factors,
Fibrinogen, Plasmin Inhibitor,
Plasminogen, von Willebrand
Factor, Protein C, PT, APTT,
TT		

--- Page 3 ---
calibrator level with two different instruments (STA Compact® and STA-R®)
using one lot of STA® - Liatest® Free PS kit. All tests were run within two to
three weeks. A target value was established for each calibrator level; Reagent
1: 14%, Reagent 2: 29%, Reagent 3: 57%, Reagent 4: 95%. Total CV% for
both studies is as follows:
Inter-Assay Lot Reproducibility Data for STA® - Free® PS Calibrator
STA® - Liatest® Free PS Free Protein S Level (%)
Reagent 1 Reagent 2 Reagent 3 Reagent 4
Lot 1 CV (%) 6.7 3.7 1.7 2.6
Lot 2 CV (%) 5.0 3.7 2.5 1.9
Inter-Instrument Reproducibility Data for STA® - Free® PS Calibrator
Instrument Free Protein S Level (%)
Reagent 1 Reagent 2 Reagent 3 Reagent 4
STA-R® CV (%) 6.7 3.7 1.7 2.6
STA Compact® CV (%) 7.6 3.6 2.8 2.6
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: For each calibrator level, the free protein S value
corresponds to the mean of a minimum of 24 determinations performed with a
minimum of 3 instruments, using at least two different lots of STA® – Liatest®
Free PS. The determinations are carried out by a minimum of two laboratory
technicians.
Traceability: The STA® - Free PS Calibrators are determined against a
secondary standard, International Standard 03/228 for free protein S
established in 2006 by the National Institute for Biological Standards and
Control (NIBSC).
Stability: Three different lots of calibrators (Reagent 1, 2, 3, and 4) were used
in the stability studies. Three vials each of Reagent 1, 2, 3, and 4 were
reconstituted and stored for 4 hours on both analyzers (STA Compact and
STA-R). In addition, freshly reconstituted reagents from the same three lots
were run using the STA® – Liatest® Free PS assay. The reconstituted stability
study result supports the claim of remaining stable for 4 hours on board the
STA line of IVD analyzers. In the lyophilized state, the calibrator plasmas
remain stable for a duration of 18 months from the date of manufacture when
stored at 2-8oC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
STA® - Liatest® Free PS	Free Protein S Level (%)			
	Reagent 1	Reagent 2	Reagent 3	Reagent 4
Lot 1 CV (%)	6.7	3.7	1.7	2.6
Lot 2 CV (%)	5.0	3.7	2.5	1.9

[Table 2 on page 3]
Instrument	Free Protein S Level (%)			
	Reagent 1	Reagent 2	Reagent 3	Reagent 4
STA-R® CV (%)	6.7	3.7	1.7	2.6
STA Compact® CV (%)	7.6	3.6	2.8	2.6

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values are manufacturing lot specific. An Assay Value Insert (AVI) is
provided with each box of calibrators. Target values are as follows: Reagent 1:
15%, Reagent 2: 31%, Reagent 3: 61%, Reagent 4: 101%.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4