
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093384
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality Control material for pH, pCO , pO , Na+, K+, Ca++, Cl¯, glucose, lactate, tHb,
2 2
%COHb, %metHb and %HHb
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Diamond Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Mission Trinity R (Level 1, 2, 3)
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY Class I 21 CFR 862.1660 Chemistry 75
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Mission Trinity R Control is intended to be used as an assayed quality control material
for monitoring the precision performance of the following analytes pH, pCO , pO ,
2 2
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJY			Class I			21 CFR 862.1660			Chemistry 75		

--- Page 2 ---
Na+,K+, Ca++, Cl¯, glucose and lactate on blood gas, electrolyte and metabolite analyzers
as well as tHb, %O Hb,%O Sat, %COHb, %MetHb, %O Ct & %HHb on CO-oximeter
2 2 2
instrumentation.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Radiometer ABL Blood Gas analyzers and CO-oximeters, Radiometer OSM3 CO-
oximeter, Ciba-Corning/Bayer Blood Gas analyzers
I. Device Description:
Trinity R consists of a buffered solution of electrolytes, glucose, lactate, dyes and
preservative. It is equilibrated with specific levels of CO , O , and N . It contains no human
2 2 2
or biological materials.
Trinity R is provided in three distinct levels of pH, pCO , pO , Na+, K+, Ca++, Cl¯, glucose,
2 2
lactate, tHb, %O Hb, %HbO Sat, %COHb, %MetHb, %O Ct & %HHb covering the
2 2 2
significant range of the instrument performance. It is packaged in sealed glass ampules, each
containing 1.8 ml of solution. Ampules are packaged in single level boxes (30 ampules of
same level) or tri-level boxes (10 ampules of each level). The ampules are single use
products.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
RNA Medical RA 525 Blood Gas, Electrolyte, Metabolite, CO-Oximeter (Radiometer)
Control
2. Predicate K number:
k880447
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Candidate Device Predicate Device
Characteristics Mission Trinity R RA525 (k880447)
Intended Use For in vitro diagnostics use Same
for quality control of
pH/Blood Gas analyzers,
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities		
	Candidate Device	Predicate Device
Characteristics	Mission Trinity R	RA525 (k880447)
Intended Use	For in vitro diagnostics use
for quality control of
pH/Blood Gas analyzers,	Same

--- Page 3 ---
ISE analyzers, Metabolite
analyzers and CO-
Oximeter instrumentation.
Product Type Assayed Blood Gas Same
Control
Matrix Buffered Aqueous Solution Same
Storage 2-8˚C Same
Color Red/purple solution Same
Levels Three Same
Analytes pH, pCO , pO , Na+, K+, Same
2 2
Ca++, Cl¯, glucose, lactate,
tHb, %O Hb, %COHb,
2
%metHb, %O Ct, %O Sat
2 2
and %HHb
Instruments Multiple instruments Multiple instruments
Differences
Candidate Device Predicate Device
Characteristics Mission Trinity R RA 525 (predicate
k880447)
Preservative Present Not present
Package Package 30 x 1.8mL 30 x 2.5mL
Shelf Life 24 months 36 months
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Materials
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	ISE analyzers, Metabolite
analyzers and CO-
Oximeter instrumentation.	
Product Type	Assayed Blood Gas
Control	Same
Matrix	Buffered Aqueous Solution	Same
Storage	2-8˚C	Same
Color	Red/purple solution	Same
Levels	Three	Same
Analytes	pH, pCO , pO , Na+, K+,
2 2
Ca++, Cl¯, glucose, lactate,
tHb, %O Hb, %COHb,
2
%metHb, %O Ct, %O Sat
2 2
and %HHb	Same
Instruments	Multiple instruments	Multiple instruments

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences		
	Candidate Device	Predicate Device
Characteristics	Mission Trinity R	RA 525 (predicate
k880447)
Preservative	Present	Not present
Package	Package 30 x 1.8mL	30 x 2.5mL
Shelf Life	24 months	36 months

--- Page 4 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
Commercially available salts/chemical constituents are gravimetrically weighed and
added to deionized water to yield desired concentrations. Controls are tonometered
with commercially available gas to yield the desired pH, pCO , pO , levels for each
2 2
control. Commercially available dyes are also added to create clinically relevant co-
oximeter values for each control. Lot to lot variation of the Mission Trinity R controls
is determined by testing the new lot vs. the previous lot normalized to either an
aqueous standard made with corresponding analyte NIST material or a known
calibrator.
Analyte Standard Used for Determination of
Analyte Value
Na, K NIST 919a, 918a
Ca NIST 915a
Cl NIST 919a
Glucose NIST 917b
Lactate Pointe™ Lactate Std
Value Assignment
Multiple replicates of test samples are measured at the beginning and end of the
production run on various analyzers for electrolyte, metabolite, and co-oximetry
values. Multiple replicates of test samples are run on two analyzers for blood gas and
pH values. Values are determined by taking the mean of multiple determinations
performed on randomly selected samples from each lot. Ranges are assigned using
pre-determined intervals. Value assignment is performed for each lot of Mission
Trinity R control.
The labeling states that laboratories should establish appropriate acceptance criteria
when using this product for its intended use.
Stability
Real Time, Shelf-Life, Open Vial, and Transport Simulation testing protocols and
acceptance criteria were described and found to be adequate. The Mission Trinity R
controls are stable until the expiration date of two years printed on the vials when
stored at 2-8 ˚C. The labeling states that for pH and blood gas values the controls
should be analyzed within one minute of opening and for electrolyte measurements
the controls should be analyzed within one hour of opening. This device should not
be frozen.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Analyte	Standard Used for Determination of
Analyte Value
Na, K	NIST 919a, 918a
Ca	NIST 915a
Cl	NIST 919a
Glucose	NIST 917b
Lactate	Pointe™ Lactate Std

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6