
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093577
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for urine opiates
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquichek Opiate Control, Level 1
Liquichek Opiate Control, Level 2
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
DIF Class I, reserved 862.3280 Toxicology 91
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
DIF			Class I, reserved			862.3280			Toxicology 91		

--- Page 2 ---
Liquichek Opiate Control is intended for use as quality control urine to monitor the
precision of laboratory urine toxicology testing procedures for the analytes listed in the
package insert.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The package insert includes ranges for GC/MS and EIA methods.
I. Device Description:
Liquichek Opiate Control is prepared from human urine with added drugs of abuse,
metabolites of drugs of abuse, preservatives, stabilizers and constituents of animal origin.
The control is provided in liquid form for convenience.
The Liquichek Opate Control consists of two levels: Level 1 and Level 2. The Level 1
Control contains drugs of abuse and metabolites of drugs of abuse added during
manufacture at concentrations approximately 25 to 50% below cutoff levels. The Level 2
Control contains drugs of abuse and metabolites of drugs of abuse added during
manufacture at concentrations approximately 25 to 50% above cutoff levels.
All human source materials used to produce this product have been tested for HbsAG,
anti-HCV, HIV-1 and HIV-2 and found to be non-reactive by FDA licensed tests.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Liquichek™ Urine Toxicology Control Levels S1E and S2E
2. Predicate K number(s):
k022707
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Characteristics Bio-Rad Liquichek Opiate Bio-Rad Liquichek Urine
Control (New Device) Toxicology Control (Predicate
Device k022707)
Intended Use Liquichek Opiate Control is Liquichek Urine Toxicology
intended for use as quality Control is intended for use as
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities		
Characteristics	Bio-Rad Liquichek Opiate
Control (New Device)	Bio-Rad Liquichek Urine
Toxicology Control (Predicate
Device k022707)
Intended Use	Liquichek Opiate Control is
intended for use as quality	Liquichek Urine Toxicology
Control is intended for use as

--- Page 3 ---
control urine to monitor the quality control urine to
precision of laboratory urine monitor the performance of
toxicology testing procedures laboratory urine toxicology
for the analytes listed in the enzyme immunoassay (EIA)
package insert. screening procedures.
Form Liquid Liquid
Matrix Urine Urine
Open Vial 30 days at 2-8˚C 30 days at 2-8˚C
Differences
Storage (unopened) -20˚ to -70˚C until expiration 2-8˚C until expiration date
date
Fill Volume 5ml 10 ml
Analytes Contains: Contains:
Buprenorphine, EDDP, d-Methamphetamine,
Fentanyl, Methadone, 6- Secobarbital, Lormetazepam,
monoacetylmorphine (6- 11-Nor-∆-9-THC-9-COOH,
MAM,6-AM),Oxycodone, Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol,
LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone Morphine
(Free), Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene, Nortriptyline,
Creatinine, Specific Gravity,
pH
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None Referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	control urine to monitor the
precision of laboratory urine
toxicology testing procedures
for the analytes listed in the
package insert.	quality control urine to
monitor the performance of
laboratory urine toxicology
enzyme immunoassay (EIA)
screening procedures.
Form	Liquid	Liquid
Matrix	Urine	Urine
Open Vial	30 days at 2-8˚C	30 days at 2-8˚C

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences		
Storage (unopened)	-20˚ to -70˚C until expiration
date	2-8˚C until expiration date
Fill Volume	5ml	10 ml
Analytes	Contains:
Buprenorphine, EDDP,
Fentanyl, Methadone, 6-
monoacetylmorphine (6-
MAM,6-AM),Oxycodone,	Contains:
d-Methamphetamine,
Secobarbital, Lormetazepam,
11-Nor-∆-9-THC-9-COOH,
Benzoylecgonine, Ethanol,
LSD, Methadone,
Methaqualone Morphine
(Free), Phencyclidine,
Propoxyphene, Nortriptyline,
Creatinine, Specific Gravity,
pH

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Drug concentrations of Liquichek Opiate Control Levels 1 and 2 are verified by gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and enzyme immunoassay (EIA)
methods. The printed values, within the package insert, are based upon replicate
assays of representative samples by participating laboratories in accordance with an
established protocol. The data are analyzed for each lot and ranges for each analyte
are assigned by the manufacturer.
Stability studies have been performed to determine the open vial stability and shelf
life stability of the Liquicheck Opiate control. Product claims are as follows: open
vial stability is 30 days when stored tightly capped at 2-8˚C; closed vial stability is 3
years when stored at -20 to -70˚C. Real time stability testing is ongoing.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The target values for each analyte are within the package insert. The labeling states
that the representative values are provided for informational purposes only and each
laboratory should establish its own parameters of precision.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5