
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093836
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification and assay range verification material for TSH (thyroid
stimulating hormone)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX - Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (Assayed and Unassayed)
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5 is an assayed control for use in calibration
verification and for use in the verification of the assay range established by the
Elecsys TSH reagent on the indicated Elecsys and cobas e immunoassay
analyzers.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
• Not intended to be used as a primary calibrator or routine control material
• For in vitro diagnostic use
• For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The labeling states that the CalChecks are for use with the Elecsys TSH reagent
on the Elecsys 2010/cobas e411 and Modular Analytics E170/cobas e601 test
systems.
I. Device Description:
The Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5 is a lyophilized product consisting of human TSH in
equine serum matrix. During manufacture, the TSH is spiked into the matrix at the
target concentrations listed below.
Elecsys TSH CalCheck Target Value (μg/mL)
level
Level 1 < 0.1
Level 2 2
Level 3 50
Level 4 83
Level 5 100
The human source materials were prepared exclusively from the blood of donors
tested individually and shown to be free from HBsAg and antibodies to HCV and
HIV. The testing methods applied were FDA-approved or cleared in compliance with
the European Directive 98/79/EC, Annex II, List A.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Elecsys TSH CalCheck		Target Value (μg/mL)
	level		
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5			< 0.1
2
50
83
100

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Elecsys CalCheck TSH
2. Predicate K number(s):
k963147
3. Comparison with predicate:
Characteristic Elecsys CalCheck TSH Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5
(k963147)
Indications for use Verification of the calibration Same
curve established by the Elecsys
TSH reagents
Intended Use Elecsys CalCheck TSH is The Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5 is
intended for use in the an assayed control for use in
quantitative verification of the calibration verification and for
calibration curve established by use in the verification of the
the Elecsys TSH reagents and assay range established by the
calibrators on Elecsys 1010 and Elecsys TSH reagent on the
2010 immunoassay analyzers. indicated Elecsys cobas e
immunoassay analyzers.
Analyzers Elecsys 1010 and 2010 Elecsys cobas e
Levels Three Five
Format Lyophilized Same
Handling Reconstitute the contents of Reconstitute Check 1, Check 2,
Check 1, Check 2 and Check 3 Check 3, Check 4, and Check 5
with exactly 1.0 mL distilled or with exactly 1.0 mL distilled or
deionized water. Allow the deionized water. Allow to stand
bottle to stand closed for 15 closed for 15 minutes, then mix
minutes. Mix gently by gently by inversion.
inversion to ensure
homogeneity.
Stability Unopened: Same
• Store at 2-8oC until
expiration date
Reconstituted:
• 20 – 25oC : 4 hrs
Matrix Equine serum matrix Same
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristic	Elecsys CalCheck TSH
(k963147)	Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5
Indications for use	Verification of the calibration
curve established by the Elecsys
TSH reagents	Same
Intended Use	Elecsys CalCheck TSH is
intended for use in the
quantitative verification of the
calibration curve established by
the Elecsys TSH reagents and
calibrators on Elecsys 1010 and
2010 immunoassay analyzers.	The Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5 is
an assayed control for use in
calibration verification and for
use in the verification of the
assay range established by the
Elecsys TSH reagent on the
indicated Elecsys cobas e
immunoassay analyzers.
Analyzers	Elecsys 1010 and 2010	Elecsys cobas e
Levels	Three	Five
Format	Lyophilized	Same
Handling	Reconstitute the contents of
Check 1, Check 2 and Check 3
with exactly 1.0 mL distilled or
deionized water. Allow the
bottle to stand closed for 15
minutes. Mix gently by
inversion to ensure
homogeneity.	Reconstitute Check 1, Check 2,
Check 3, Check 4, and Check 5
with exactly 1.0 mL distilled or
deionized water. Allow to stand
closed for 15 minutes, then mix
gently by inversion.
Stability	Unopened:
• Store at 2-8oC until
expiration date
Reconstituted:
• 20 – 25oC : 4 hrs	Same
Matrix	Equine serum matrix	Same

--- Page 4 ---
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and value assignment
Elecsys TSH CalCheck 5 is standardized using internally produced master
calibrators which are traceable to the World Health Organization’s Second
International Reference Preparation (WHO 2nd IRP 80/558) human
recombinant standardization material.
Value assignment testing is conducted and pre-defined acceptance criteria are
applied. Specifically, each of the five CalCheck levels is value assigned using
a minimum of three Elecsys 2010/cobas e411 analyzers and MODULAR
ANALYTICS E170/cobas e 601 analyzers. Each sample is tested in
duplicate. The target value for each CalCheck is the median of the observed
values.
The labeling states that laboratories should establish appropriate acceptance
criteria when using this product for its intended use.
Stability
Real time and accelerated stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were
described and found to be adequate. CalCheck 5 is stable for 24 months when
stored unopened at 2 – 8° C. The reconstituted vials are stable up to four hours at
20-25°C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5