
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K093383
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of bioMérieux’s NucliSENS EasyQ System
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
bioMérieux’s NucliSENS EasyQ System. The primary instrument is bioMérieux’s
NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer with Director software.
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Real-Time PCR; see K063261 for more details on Enterovirus analyte.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer is the primary component of the NucliSENS
EasyQ System. This system was used in K063261, the original NucliSENS
EasyQ® Enterovirus v1.1, 510(k) submission. The instrumentation and software
components of that system as currently configured are:
Instrumentation:
• NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer
• NucliSENS miniMAG
• NucliSENS EasyQ Incubator II (updated from version I)
Software:
• NucliSENS EasyQ Director 2.6 (updated from 2.5)
• NuclISENS EasyQ Assay Protocol
2. Principles of Operation:
Sample Processing: This step uses the NucliSENS miniMAG, a stand-alone
device for semiautomated nucleic extraction. During sample processing, viral
particles are lysed and the RNA is captured onto magnetic silica particles. The
silica is washed to remove contaminants and the RNA is eluted. The eluted RNA
is pipetted into a reaction vessel along with the amplification/detection reagents.

--- Page 2 ---
Sample preparation utilizes equipment and reagents that are components of the
general NucliSens platform. Specifically, the specimen is lysed in NucliSens lysis
buffer (containing guanidinium isothiocyanate) to release the RNA. IC RNA from
e.g., the EasyQ Enterovirus kit is then added to the lysed sample. The NucliSens
magnetic extraction reagents and equipment are then used to capture total RNA
on magnetic silica particles. Unwanted specimen components are removed by
washing. Purified and concentrated RNA is eluted.
Real-time Amplification/Detection: Eluted RNA and amplification reagents are
added to the amplification reaction vessels (organized in 8-well strip units up to a
total of 96 samples). After a brief denaturation step in the NucliSens EasyQ
incubator II, the target RNAs are amplified in the NucliSens EasyQ Analyzer. The
user interfaces with the Analyzer through the NucliSens EasyQ Director software
which controls the Analyzer. The Director software is loaded on the EasyQ
Computer which is connected to the Analyzer; the computer system includes a
monitor, printer, keyboard and mouse as peripheral devices.
The Analyzer performs an isothermal amplification reaction and detects amplified
RNA in real time through the use of two differentially labeled molecular beacons
(one for the target, one for an internal control sequence). Upon binding to their
target, each beacon produces a fluorescent signal used to detect the amplified
RNA or DNA.
The NucliSENS EasyQ analyzer is dedicated to read fluorescence from reaction
tubes in a controlled environment. The analyzer contains a plate carrier that keeps
the samples at the required temperature for the assay. The reader uses an optical
system, based on direct and focused illumination to prevent cross talk and give
accurate readings. Filters control the wavelength of the illumination for both
excitation and emission of the molecular beacon used in the assay. Filters are
automatically selected by the assay protocol. The system uses different filters to
measure particular labels (dyes).
Once a tray of sample tubes has been loaded into the NucliSENS EasyQ analyzer,
the analyzer moves the first tube into position over the light source. The analyzer
then directs the light source upward through the bottom of the sample tube. The
light causes the molecular beacons to emit light. Through the use of a mirror, the
emitted light is directed through an optical filter to a photo multiplier tube where
the fluorescence reading is taken. The next sample is then moved into position
and the process is repeated. The intensity of the emitted light is measured for each
sample.
Director software receives fluorescence readings from the Analyzer and executes
the calculation engine that is part of the assay protocol software. The EasyQ
Enterovirus v1.1 Assay Protocol software receives the reaction data and uses a
validated algorithm to interpret the kinetics and intensity of fluorescence signals
which result from each amplification reaction. After interpretation by the assay

--- Page 3 ---
protocol software, results for each test are reported back to Director as one of 3
possible reaction outcomes: positive, negative, or invalid. Director does not have
any knowledge of the actual calculation. Director then presents the qualitative
result to the user by printing, on screen and by export file.
3. Modes of Operation:
Batch or Random access through tube strip (Analyzer)
4. Specimen Identification:
Entered by user (Analyzer)
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimens are processed according to assay instructions.
6. Calibration:
The analyzer contains an autocalibration function that reads the fluorescence from
the reference materials on the plate carrier. The reading is compared to the value
in the system memory. The measured value can differ from the memory value.
7. Quality Control:
Quality control is addressed for each separately cleared specific assay to be run on
the instrument.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.2570 Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:

--- Page 4 ---
OOI (Real Time Nucleic Acid Amplification System) for NucliSENS EasyQ
Analyzer
JJH (Clinical Sample Concentrator) for NucliSENS miniMAG
JTQ (Bath, Incubators/Water, All) for NucliSENS EasyQ Incubator II
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer and NucliSENS EasyQ Director 2.6 Software
In vitro diagnostic medical device.
The NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer and the accompanying NucliSENS EasyQ
Director software are intended for in vitro diagnostic use in conjunction with
FDA-cleared or approved NucliSENS assay protocols. The user shall be a properly
trained laboratory technician familiar with performing nucleic acid assays. The
analyzer is intended to measure fluorescent readings from molecular beacon
probes binding to amplified RNA or DNA in samples containing NucliSENS
EasyQ assay reagents while controlling the temperature of the samples. The
NucliSENS EasyQ Director software is intended to control instrument operations
and organize the assays to be performed. In addition, the software is intended to
automatically calculate results for each test request based on raw measurement
data, the data reduction algorithm specified for the assay, and the batch
parameters of the reagents used for the test.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Applied Biosystems 7500 Fast Dx Real-Time PCR Instrument with the SDS
Software version 1.4 (K082562)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Multiplex Capable Able to measure and sort multiple Able to measure and sort
signals generated by an assay multiple signals generated
from a clinical sample by an assay from a clinical
sample
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Technology Real-Time NASBA (nucleic acid Real-Time PCR
based sequence amplification) (polymerase chain
reaction)
Indications for Use The NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer The Applied Biosystems
and the accompanying NucliSENS 7500 Fast Dx Real-Time
EasyQ Director software are PCR Instrument with the
intended for in vitro diagnostic use SDS Software version 1.4
in conjunction with FDA cleared is a real-time nucleic acid
NucliSENS assay protocols. The amplification and detection
user shall be a properly trained system that measures
laboratory technician familiar with nucleic acid signals from
performing nucleic acid assays. reverse transcribed RNA
and converts them to
The analyzer is intended to comparative quantitative
measure fluorescent readings from readouts using fluorescent
molecular beacon probes binding detection of dual-labeled
to amplified RNA or DNA in hydrolysis probes. The
samples containing NucliSENS 7500 Fast Dx is to be used
EasyQ assay reagents while only by technologists
controlling the temperature of the trained in laboratory
samples. techniques, procedures
and on use of the analyzer.
The NucliSENS EasyQ Director
software is intended to control
instrument operations and
organize the assays to be
performed. In addition, the
software is intended to
automatically calculate results for
each test request based on raw
measurement data, the data
reduction algorithm specified for
the assay, and the batch
parameters of the reagents used
for the test.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex
Test Systems:
http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/GuidanceDocum
ents/ucm077819.htm

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities									
	Item				Device			Predicate	
Multiplex Capable		Able to measure and sort multiple
signals generated by an assay
from a clinical sample					Able to measure and sort
multiple signals generated
by an assay from a clinical
sample		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences									
	Item				Device			Predicate	
Technology		Real-Time NASBA (nucleic acid
based sequence amplification)					Real-Time PCR
(polymerase chain
reaction)		
Indications for Use		The NucliSENS EasyQ Analyzer
and the accompanying NucliSENS
EasyQ Director software are
intended for in vitro diagnostic use
in conjunction with FDA cleared
NucliSENS assay protocols. The
user shall be a properly trained
laboratory technician familiar with
performing nucleic acid assays.
The analyzer is intended to
measure fluorescent readings from
molecular beacon probes binding
to amplified RNA or DNA in
samples containing NucliSENS
EasyQ assay reagents while
controlling the temperature of the
samples.
The NucliSENS EasyQ Director
software is intended to control
instrument operations and
organize the assays to be
performed. In addition, the
software is intended to
automatically calculate results for
each test request based on raw
measurement data, the data
reduction algorithm specified for
the assay, and the batch
parameters of the reagents used
for the test.					The Applied Biosystems
7500 Fast Dx Real-Time
PCR Instrument with the
SDS Software version 1.4
is a real-time nucleic acid
amplification and detection
system that measures
nucleic acid signals from
reverse transcribed RNA
and converts them to
comparative quantitative
readouts using fluorescent
detection of dual-labeled
hydrolysis probes. The
7500 Fast Dx is to be used
only by technologists
trained in laboratory
techniques, procedures
and on use of the analyzer.		

--- Page 6 ---
J. Performance Characteristics:
All assay analytical and clinical testing was reviewed in K063261. This submission
is linked to the assay data presented there.
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K063261) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision/Reproducibility was assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K063261) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
c. Linearity:
N/A since the Enterovirus assay is not quantitative.
d. Carryover:
Carryover was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K063261) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
e. Interfering Substances:
Interfering Substances were assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K063261) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.