
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093460
B. Purpose for Submission:
Submission for modifications to a cleared device
C. Measurand:
Prothrombin Time
D. Type of Test:
Electrochemical
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CoaguChek® XS Pro System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7750 - Prothrombin time test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GJS – Test, Time, Prothrombin
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The CoaguChek® XS Pro System is intended for use by professional healthcare
providers for quantitative prothrombin time testing for the monitoring of warfarin
therapy. The CoaguChek® XS System uses fresh capillary or non-anticoagulated venous
whole blood.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
CoaguChek XS Pro
I. Device Description:
The CoaguChek® XS Pro is a portable coagulation monitoring system to monitor
prothrombin time (PT) in patients receiving oral anticoagulant therapy. The system uses
the amperometric detection of thrombin in the blood sample. A test strip is used to
determine a PT value from 8µL of whole blood. The system features onboard quality
control on every test strip as well as optional external quality control material.
The system is composed of a Handheld Basic Module (HBM) which provides the power
management of the AC adapter or rechargeable batteries and houses all the data
1

--- Page 2 ---
management features; the Measurement Module (MM) which converts raw signals from
test strip into final PT result; and an embedded Barcode Reader (BR) when enables
automatic strip lot identification.
The test strip incorporates quality control material that assesses strip integrity. The
system also features a QC lockout feature which prevents the operator from performing a
test if the QC results fail.
The CoaguChek® XS Plus automatically stores up to 1000 test results with date, time,
patient ID, and operator ID, along with 500 QC results.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Roche Diagnostics CoaguChek XS Plus System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k071041
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The CoaguChek® XS Pro System is Same
intended for use by professional
healthcare providers for quantitative
prothrombin time testing for the
monitoring of warfarin therapy. The
CoaguChek® XS System uses fresh
capillary or non-anticoagulated venous
whole blood.
Measuring Range 0.8 - 8.0 INR Same
Components Includes handheld basic module (power Same
unit), measurement module (converts raw
signal to final PT result), bar code reader
(automatically ID strip lot
Reagent Human recombinant thromboplastin Same
Quality Control Lot specific target values provided on QC Same
code chip/QC Lockout feature
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Hardware Embedded bar code reader External bar code
reader
Minimum sample 8 µl 10 µl
volume
Language 12 languages can be selected Not available
Operating Temperature 15- 32ºC 18 – 32ºC
Blood application time 120 seconds 180 seconds
Memory 1000 INR results, 500 QC results 500 INR results/ 500
QC results
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The CoaguChek® XS Pro System is
intended for use by professional
healthcare providers for quantitative
prothrombin time testing for the
monitoring of warfarin therapy. The
CoaguChek® XS System uses fresh
capillary or non-anticoagulated venous
whole blood.			Same		
Measuring Range			0.8 - 8.0 INR			Same		
Components			Includes handheld basic module (power
unit), measurement module (converts raw
signal to final PT result), bar code reader
(automatically ID strip lot			Same		
Reagent			Human recombinant thromboplastin			Same		
Quality Control			Lot specific target values provided on QC
code chip/QC Lockout feature			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Hardware			Embedded bar code reader			External bar code
reader		
Minimum sample
volume			8 µl			10 µl		
Language			12 languages can be selected			Not available		
Operating Temperature			15- 32ºC			18 – 32ºC		
Blood application time			120 seconds			180 seconds		
Memory			1000 INR results, 500 QC results			500 INR results/ 500
QC results		

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
EN ISO 14971:2007: Application of risk management to medical devices
EN ISO 13485:2003: Medical Devices Quality Management Systems
L. Test Principle:
The reactive components of the lyophilized reagent consist of thromboplastin and a peptide
substrate. When a blood sample is applied to the test strip, thromboplastin activates the
coagulation cascade which leads to the formation of thrombin. At the same time, the meter
starts to measure the time. Thrombin cleaves the peptide substrate creating an
electrochemically active peptide, which generates an electrical signal. The signal is
converted by means of an algorithm to an INR value and displayed by the CoaguChek XS
Pro System.
The on-board quality control is a bi-level control that accesses test strip integrity. The PT
test and QC testing are performed simultaneously. The test system determines whether the
quality control is within preset limits. If it is, the meter displays a short term “QC(cid:51)”, and
then the PT test result. If the QC is not within limits, the meter displays “error QC”, and no
PT test result will be displayed.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Intra/inter assay precision was demonstrated by testing 120 CoaguChek XS Pro
meters against 6 CoaguChek XS Plus Reference meters. Controls and normal blood
samples were used for the assessment.
Results demonstrated <2% CV and <2% bias for the Control samples, and <3% CV
and <2% bias for the blood samples.
Acceptance criteria were as follows:
Controls:
Meter imprecision (meter to meter) <15%
Bias to mean Reference meter <±3.0%
Percentage of meters within specified range (mean±2 >95% all meters
SD)
System imprecision (CV within one meter) <4.5%
Blood:
Meter imprecision (meter to meter) not applicable
Bias to mean Reference meter <±3.0%
Percentage of meters within specified range (mean±2 SD) Not applicable
System imprecision (CV within one meter) <4.5%
For both sample types:
Overall error rate <4%
Acceptance criteria were met for all blood and control samples
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Meter imprecision (meter to meter)	<15%
Bias to mean Reference meter	<±3.0%
Percentage of meters within specified range (mean±2
SD)	>95% all meters
System imprecision (CV within one meter)	<4.5%

[Table 2 on page 3]
Meter imprecision (meter to meter)	not applicable
Bias to mean Reference meter	<±3.0%
Percentage of meters within specified range (mean±2 SD)	Not applicable
System imprecision (CV within one meter)	<4.5%

[Table 3 on page 3]
Overall error rate	<4%

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The CoaguChek XS Test strips are calibrated to a master reagent lot which has in turn
been calibrated to a WHO International Reference Preparations (rTF/95) using the
manual tilt tube method.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Reviewed under k060978 (original CoaguChek XS submission)
Testing demonstrated no interference with unfractionated heparin up to 2 u/mL from
normal donors, and up to 0.8 u/mL for warfarin patients. Acceptance criteria was
<10% difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
Tinzaparin and Enoxaparin (LMW H’s) showed no interference up to 2 IU anti-Xa
activity/ml for both normal donors and warfarin patients. Acceptance criteria was
<10% difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
Testing was performed to demonstrate the interference of bilirubin, lipemia, and
hemolysis. Results showed no interference from bilirubin up to 30 mg/dL, lipemia up
to 500 mg/dL, and hemolysis up to 1000 mg/dL. Acceptance criteria was <10%
difference when compared to the unspiked sample.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The CoaguChek XS was originally cleared under k060978. Analytical parameters
were reviewed along with a three site comparison study that compared venous
(n=710) and capillary (n=700) specimens to a laboratory reference method.
The CoaguChek XS Plus, which attached an external bar code reader to the XS, was
cleared under k071041. There was no change in the analytical performance with the
XS Plus. The submission included a three site comparison study that compared
venous (n = 811, y = 1.090X – 0.2, r = 0.974) and capillary (n = 822, y = 1.075X –
0.1, r = 0.972) specimens to a laboratory reference method.
This submission, k093460, embeds the bar code reader that was cleared under
k071041. Analytical performance has not changed. To demonstrate comparison to
the predicate, an internal study that tested twenty four CoaguChek XS Pro meters
against 24 CoaguChek XS Plus meters was submitted. The testing pool consisted of
five hematocrit variations (0%, 25%, 35%, 45%, 55%) prepared from 8 donors (2
normal, 6 anticoagulated) and tested on 3 different test strip lots (eight instruments
per lot), for a n of 1,037 (8 samples x 5 preps x 3 lots x 8 instruments + 57 additional
patient samples). Regression analysis was calculated for all 8 samples, on 3 test strip
lots for HCT, clotting time (sec), clotting time (INR), and the electrical resistance in
the AC (alternating current) measuring mode (termed Admittance by the Sponsor),
that demonstrated acceptable correlation. The acceptance criteria however, were set
as:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Specified hematocrit range 25 – 55 %
Mean INR bias ≤3%
INR System imprecision (CV w/in one meter and one test strip lot) <4.5%
Error rate <4.0%
All acceptance criteria were met for all blood samples.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Reviewed under k060978
N. Instrument Name:
CoaguChek XS Pro System
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Manual; Closed system
2. Software:
Software Development for the CoaguChek XS Plus System was previously reviewed in
k060978 and k071041
Yes __(cid:51)____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Date and time of testing is recorded by the CoaguChek XS Pro meter
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Whole blood is manually applied to the target area of the test strip either from the top or
side of the strip.
5. Calibration:
The CoaguChek XS Test strips are calibrated to a master reagent lot which has in turn
been calibrated to a WHO International Reference Preparations (rTF/95) using the
manual tilt tube method.
6. Quality Control:
The CoaguChek XS System incorporates a bi-level on-board quality control (OBC)
within the CoaguChek XS test strip that monitors test strip integrity.
Level 1 OBC detects strip defects such as reagent defects, capillary compression and
electrode defects. Level 2 OBC directly measures strip damage due to such things as
exposure to increased humidity, light, and temperature.
The pre-determined OBC ranges are programmed into the lot specific code chip that is
packaged with the matching test strip lot.
Acceptable data was presented validating the OBC in k60978.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Specified hematocrit range	25 – 55 %
Mean INR bias	≤3%
INR System imprecision (CV w/in one meter and one test strip lot)	<4.5%
Error rate	<4.0%

--- Page 6 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In the
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision
6