
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093819
B. Purpose for Submission:
ARKRAY is seeking clearance for the ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management
Software as an accessory for use with ARKRAY blood glucose meters
C. Measurand:
Whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Data management system for ARKRAY OTC whole blood glucose meters
E. Applicant:
ARKRAY Factory USA, Inc
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software (SMBG Viewer)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1345, Glucose Test System
21 CFR § 862.2100, Calculator/data processing module for clinical use
2. Classification:
Class II, Class I
3. Product code:
NBW, CGA, JQP
4. Panel:
75 (Clinical Chemistry)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software:
The ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software (SMBG Viewer) is an
optional accessory for use with ARKRAY blood glucose meters with data
management capabilities. The ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software
transfers data from the meter’s memory into a computer for enhanced data
management. The ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software is intended for
use in home and clinical settings to assist people with diabetes and their health

--- Page 2 ---
care professionals in review, analysis and evaluation of historical blood glucose
test results to support diabetes management.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
ARKRAY blood glucose meters such as GLUCOCARD 01 Meter (k073416),
X-METER (k063771), PocketChem EZ (k063068), EasyPRO Plus (k063068),
PocketChem EZ (k090653), and GLUCOCARD® Vital™ (k091102).
I. Device Description:
The ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software is an optional accessory for use
with ARKRAY blood glucose meters with data management capabilities. The subject
device consists of a USB data transfer cable and software. The system allows the user
to download blood glucose results from their glucose meter to their computer,
maintain a history of their glucose test results, and convert them into graphs, charts
and reports. The software does not recommend any medical treatment or medication
dosage level.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
GlucoBalance™ Data Management Software,
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k022545
3. Comparison with predicate:
Device Predicate: GlucoBalance New Device: SMBG
Characteristic
For use in home and clinical settings
to assist people with diabetes and
their health care professionals in
Indications for use Identical
review, analysis and evaluation of
historical blood glucose test results
to support diabetes management.
Installation of
Installed using a CD Identical
Program
Package Contents Software and electronic instructions
Identical
for use
Capable of Software driver must be uploaded on
uploading data the device or installed on PC
Identical
from various
devices
Software use
Home or multi-patient use setting Identical
indications
Deleting results No Yes
2 of 7

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Device		Predicate: GlucoBalance	New Device: SMBG
	Characteristic			
Indications for use			For use in home and clinical settings
to assist people with diabetes and
their health care professionals in
review, analysis and evaluation of
historical blood glucose test results
to support diabetes management.	Identical
Installation of
Program			Installed using a CD	Identical
Package Contents			Software and electronic instructions
for use	Identical
Capable of
uploading data
from various
devices			Software driver must be uploaded on
the device or installed on PC	Identical
Software use
indications			Home or multi-patient use setting	Identical
Deleting results			No	Yes

--- Page 3 ---
Language
English Identical
capabilities
Customizable
Yes Identical
schedule
Search patient
Yes Identical
capability
Clock format 12 hour clock format Identical
Date format Month/day/year only Identical
Auto-detect COM
No Identical
port
Technical Support Yes Identical
System Software and cable connection
Identical
Components between meter and user’s PC
Ability to export
glucose test result Yes Identical
information
Copy database to
No Yes
separate file
Ability to access
DMS program via No Yes
icon or explorer
Result type display Choice of mmol/L or mg/dL mg/dL only
Software Platform Microsoft Windows 95, 98, NT, or --Windows 2000
2000 Professional/ XP Home
edition / XP Professional,
Windows Vista (32 bit
edition only)
Hardware --200 MHz Pentium class processor, --Pentium 100MHz or
Requirements -- 32 MB RAM for Windows 95, or more (recommend
98, 64 MB RAM for Windows NT Celeron 450MHz or
or 2000, --20 MB of free hard disk more), --32 MB or more
space, --Floppy or CD ROM drive, - (recommend 128 MB or
- Available serial port. more), -- 40 MB disc
space ore more
(recommend 100 MB or
more) --CD ROM drive,
-- Available USB port.
Reports/Graphs --Histograms, --Log Book, --Modal
Generated Day, --Pie Charts, --Statistics, --
Identical
Trend Chart
Report Type: Test
Yes No
Frequency
3 of 7

[Table 1 on page 3]
Language
capabilities	English	Identical
Customizable
schedule	Yes	Identical
Search patient
capability	Yes	Identical
Clock format	12 hour clock format	Identical
Date format	Month/day/year only	Identical
Auto-detect COM
port	No	Identical
Technical Support	Yes	Identical
System
Components	Software and cable connection
between meter and user’s PC	Identical
Ability to export
glucose test result
information	Yes	Identical
Copy database to
separate file	No	Yes
Ability to access
DMS program via
icon or explorer	No	Yes
Result type display	Choice of mmol/L or mg/dL	mg/dL only
Software Platform	Microsoft Windows 95, 98, NT, or
2000	--Windows 2000
Professional/ XP Home
edition / XP Professional,
Windows Vista (32 bit
edition only)
Hardware
Requirements	--200 MHz Pentium class processor,
-- 32 MB RAM for Windows 95, or
98, 64 MB RAM for Windows NT
or 2000, --20 MB of free hard disk
space, --Floppy or CD ROM drive, -
- Available serial port.	--Pentium 100MHz or
more (recommend
Celeron 450MHz or
more), --32 MB or more
(recommend 128 MB or
more), -- 40 MB disc
space ore more
(recommend 100 MB or
more) --CD ROM drive,
-- Available USB port.
Reports/Graphs
Generated	--Histograms, --Log Book, --Modal
Day, --Pie Charts, --Statistics, --
Trend Chart	Identical
Report Type: Test
Frequency	Yes	No

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 14971 Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
2007
L. Test Principle:
Data Transmission of whole blood glucose data from glucose meters.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
The below performance characteristics as applicable, were presented in specific
glucose meter clearances under k073416, k063771, k063068, k063068, k090653, and
k091102.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section M.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
See above statement under section M.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
See above statement under section M.
d. Detection limit:
See above statement under section M.
e. Analytical specificity:
See above statement under section M.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
See above statement under section M.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
See above statement under section M.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
See above statement under section M.
4 of 7

--- Page 5 ---
N. Instrument Name:
ARKRAY Diabetes Data Management Software (SMBG Viewer)
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?:
Yes _X__ or No ______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?:
Yes _____ or No __X__
Operating systems -Windows 2000 Professional/ XP Home edition / XP
Professional, Windows Vista (32 bit edition only)
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
There are two options for data transmission; 1.) Personal option, where the data
management system is dedicated to one patient; 2.) Multiple patient option where
the data management system handles multiple patients.
The difference in the options is for the multiple patient option the patient is
selected prior to results being transmitted from the meter.
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
5. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific See above statement under section M.
5 of 7

--- Page 6 ---
6. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific - See above statement under section M.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
ARKRAY conducted bench testing to demonstrate data accuracy transmission for
each meter stated in H. 4., special instrument requirements, above. Meter
flags/functions were tested such as control solution, DEL (or!), and temperature
warning to verify the information properly downloads from the meters to the data
management software. Memory data rollover was also tested by adding four (4) data
points to meters that were pre-loaded with full memory. Test results show that all
glucose values, flags, date, and time properly downloaded from the meters to the
software. Memory data rollover also functioned properly where the new glucose
values replaced the oldest glucose values.
In addition, two studies each intended to assess personal lay users and professional
healthcare users in the setup and use of on ARKRAY’s Diabetes Data Management
Software were conducted. The first study included 31 personal lay users and 5
professionals and the second study included 45 personal lay users and 10
professionals. The two studies evaluated a combined, seventy-six (76) diabetic adult
consumers and fifteen (15) healthcare professionals who work with diabetics.
The GLUCOCARD X-METER, GLUCOCARD® Vital™, and PocketChem EZ
Meter have different user interface. The PocketChem EZ has identical user interface
as the, GLUCOCARD 01, Easy PRO Plus, and EasyPro Plus.
76 Personal lay users were given the software program on CD, operating manual,
step by step user instructions, a computer and printer, an ARKRAY blood glucose
meter with a USB cable and the study questionnaires. They were instructed to:
1. Install the software program as directed in the operating manual.
2. Start/access software program.
3. Enter User Information
4. Download and save data from the glucose meter.
5. Access and view information in logbook.
6. Enter user health information (carbohydrates and exercise)
7. View and print graphs and reports.
8. Export CSV files.
9. Exit software program.
6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
10. Complete “Ease of Use” and “Performance” Questionnaires.
15 Professional users were given a copy of the software program on CD,
operating Manual, step by step user instructions, computer, an ARKRAY blood
glucose meter with a USB cable and the study questionnaires. Using simulated
patient data they were instructed to:
1. Install and start the software program as instructed in the operating manual.
2. Enter patient preferences and profile (name, target ranges, patient
demographics, printer preferences, time block settings …).
3. Enter user health information (carbohydrates and exercise).
4. Download and save data from the blood glucose meter.
5. View and print graphs and reports.
6. Import and export CSV files.
7. Enter “Other Data” (HbA1c).
8. Exit software program.
9. Complete “Ease of Use” and “Performance” Questionnaires.
Personal lay users rated ARKRAY's Diabetes Data Management Software
Program at 100% for overall program as easy or somewhat easy. There were no
users that rated the software program as somewhat difficult or difficult.
Overall, professional health care users rated ARKRAY Diabetes Data
Management Software Program at 100% as easy or somewhat easy.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7 of 7