
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k093243
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain clearance for home-use patient self-testing with the ImmediaTM
Prothrombin Time System previously cleared for professional use (k050243). The
home use patient self-testing device is renamed as CoaguSense Self-Test Prothrombin
Time/INR Monitoring System.
C. Measurand:
Prothrombin Time
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative clotting assay
E. Applicant:
CoaguSense, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CoaguSense Self-Test Prothrombin Time/INR Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §864.7750 - Prothrombin Time Test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GJS - test, time, prothrombin
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The CoaguSense Self-Test PT Monitoring System is an in vitro diagnostic device
that provides quantitative prothrombin time (PT) results, expressed in seconds and
international normalized ratio (INR) units. It uses fresh capillary whole blood. It
is intended for use by properly selected and suitably trained patients or their
caregivers on the order of the treating doctor. Patients should be stabilized on
warfarin-type (coumarin) anticoagulation therapy prior to self-testing with the
CoaguSense Self-Test PT Monitoring System. It is not intended to be used for
screening purposes.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
I. Device Description:
CoaguSense Self-Test Prothrombin Time/INR Monitoring System is the identical
device to the Immedia™ PT System, which was cleared for professional use under
k050243.
1

--- Page 2 ---
This premarket notification is being submitted to obtain clearance for patient self-
testing.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
• Immedia™ Prothrombin Time System (Farallon Medical, Inc.)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
• k050243
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Measure prothrombin time Same
Optical detection of light
Technology Same
beam interruption by clot
Test Strip, Calibration
Reagent Supplies Strip, High and Low Same
Control Strips
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Indications Home users Professional use
Minipipette & PolyPet
Sample Transfer Device Minipipette
Sample Transfer Tubes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Points to Consider for Collection of Data in Support of In Vitro Device Submissions
for 510(k) Clearance
510(k) Submission for Coagulation Instruments - Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff, June 19, 2003
Assessing the Safety and Effectiveness of Home-Use In Vitro Diagnostic Devices
(IVDs): Draft Points to Consider Regarding Labeling and Premarket Submissions;
CDRH Guidance, October 1988
CLSI H49-A, Point-of-Care Monitoring of Anticoagulation Therapy; Approved
Guideline
CLSI H47-A, One-Stage Prothrombin Time (PT) Test and Activated Partial
Thromboplastin Time (APTT) Test; Approved Guideline (1996)
CLSI H21-A5, Collection, Transport, and Processing of Blood Specimens for Testing
Plasma-Based Coagulation Assays and Molecular Hemostasis Assays
L. Test Principle:
When a blood sample is applied to the application area of a test strip, the blood flows
into the reaction area of the test strip where spokes on the rotating wheel mix the
blood with recombinant rabbit thromboplastin, thereby starting the extrinsic
coagulation pathway. As coagulation occurs, the formed clot is gathered by the
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended Use			Measure prothrombin time		Same		
Technology			Optical detection of light
beam interruption by clot		Same		
Reagent Supplies			Test Strip, Calibration
Strip, High and Low
Control Strips		Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Indications			Home users			Professional use	
Sample Transfer Device			Minipipette & PolyPet
Sample Transfer Tubes			Minipipette	

--- Page 3 ---
spokes and carried across a light beam. Interruption of the light beam is measured by
an optical detector. The PT is reported as the time between the introduction of blood
onto the test strip and blockage of the light beam, while the INR is calculated from
the PT using the calibration parameters read from the test strip.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision of duplicates for capillary blood results was calculated from the 3-
site method comparison study where the study subjects performed a duplicate
self-test at the clinic in week 5 and week 10, and the healthcare professional
(HCP) collected two fingerstick samples from the study subjects and
performed the duplicate tests in week 3 and 7. Precision of test results was
determined on each set of duplicates by calculating the mean and the
confidence interval. The average CVs for both trained users and HCP are
below the acceptance criteria of 6% and the results are summarized as
follows:
User results Professional Results
N 226 225
INR Mean 2.48 2.55
INR Range 0.90 – 5.10 0.80 – 5.80
Mean CV 3.44 2.53
95% CI of CV’s 2.79 – 4.10 2.12 – 2.94
Correlation (r) 0.96 0.98
Intercept 0.06 0.07
Slope 0.97 0.96
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Established under k050243
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Established under k050243
d. Detection limit:
Established under k050243
e. Analytical specificity:
Established under k050243
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device: The study compared test results
obtained by trained users to results obtained by healthcare professionals using
the CoaguSense Self-Test PT Monitoring System. The patient performed a
total of 15 self-testing at home over a period of 10 weeks, with 5 scheduled
visits to their study site. After the initial visit, all study subjects provided
duplicate test samples during clinic visits (weeks 3, 5, 7, 10). The subjects
performed a duplicate self-test at the clinic in week 5 and week 10, and HCP
collected two fingerstick samples from the study subjects and performed the
duplicate tests in week 3 and 7. During each office visit, a venous reference
sample (3.2% sodium citrate) was collected from each study subject and
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	User results	Professional Results
N	226	225
INR Mean	2.48	2.55
INR Range	0.90 – 5.10	0.80 – 5.80
Mean CV	3.44	2.53
95% CI of CV’s	2.79 – 4.10	2.12 – 2.94
Correlation (r)	0.96	0.98
Intercept	0.06	0.07
Slope	0.97	0.96

--- Page 4 ---
analyzed with Diagnostica Stago STA Compact system using Dade® Innovin®
thromboplastin reagent. A total of 117 subjects were enrolled, and 108
subjects completed all four visits. Comparing test results obtained by patients
with results obtained by HCPs showed a correlation coefficient of 0.98 (y =
1.03x – 0.08, n=546). Comparing test results from the CoaguSense Self-Test
PT Monitoring System with results from the laboratory reference method
showed that the correlation coefficients were 0.91 for results by study subjects
(y = 0.91x + 0.08, n=538) and 0.92 for results by HCP (y = 0.92x + 0.18,
n=541).
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity and Specificity:
Not applicable.
b. Other clinical supportive data (when a. is not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Please see original 510(k) submission (k050243).
N. Instrument Name:
CoaguSense PT/INR Meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Manual, closed system
2. Software:
All components of the device are controlled/monitored by software, which is
responsible for the functionality, user interface, safety checks and performance
accuracy.
The software controls the LCD screen, the 4-key keypad and the beeper for the
user interface. It also controls the barcode reader for reading the information on
the strips and the EEPROM for storing information.
For performing a patient test, a calibration or a control function, the software
controls the following devices:
• A heater and thermistor for controlling the temperature of the sample
• An optical interrupter to determine when a strip is inserted
• An optical path for determining the existence of a clot in the sample
• An optical path for determining if the strip is correctly inserted, and
whether it has a liquid sample applied
• A room temperature thermistor
• A motor and motor control for rotating the strip wheel
The software leads the user through the steps needed for each function, makes any
needed calculations and displays the results.
The software also interfaces with a real time clock/sleep battery and a power
supply for power management. The software also uses a RS232 interface for
connecting to the Host Computer.
4

--- Page 5 ---
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X_____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Date and time of testing is recorded by the CoaguSense PT/INR Meter
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Fresh capillary whole blood.
5. Calibration:
As established under k050243, CoaguSense Self-Test Prothrombin Time/INR
Monitoring System is precalibrated. When the Calibration strip that is supplied
with each carton of test strips is inserted into the meter the bar coded calibration
information is entered. Strips from different test kits or an expired strip will
generate an error message and will not allow the test to be run.
6. Quality Control:
As established under k050243, each carton of test strips contains 2 control strips
(containing thromboplastin with low/high level of plasma) to be tested at start of
each new carton of strips or when PT results are suspect.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
a. Electrical Safety Testing: The testing was performed by Underwriter’s
Laboratory (UL) and demonstrates the system complies with safety
requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control, and
laboratory use as described in UL 61010-1, Safety Requirements for Electrical
Equipment for Measurement, Control, and Laboratory Use.
b. Electromagnetic (EMC) Compatibility Testing: Testing is still in progress to
ensure that the CoaguSense Self-Test PT Monitoring System complies with
electromagnetic compatibility requirements of the medical EMC standards,
IEC/EN 60601-1-2 for emissions and immunity of medical devices of the
c. Environmental Testing: The CoaguSense Self-Test PT Monitoring System
passed testing under the normal conditions of use: temperature range of 18ºC -
32 ºC and humidity range of 10% – 85% RH.
d. Impact Testing: A drop test confirmed that the CoaguSense Self-Test PT
Monitoring System meter provides accurate test results and does not shatter,
crack or become damaged following multiple drops from countertop height
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5