
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K093001
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. STA-R Evolution® Expert Series analyzer, K082675 previously cleared device.
2. Submitter’ s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for modifications which include; (1) changes in hardware and mechanical
components to increase the reliability of operation and replacement of obsolete components, without
any change in the technology or mechanical operation by which samples are processed, (2) change
in the device application software to provide operator/user use enhancements, modification of the
data post-processing to increase reliability of results and bug corrections. Additionally, a new option is
proposed when using capped tubes i.e. implementation of a Reverse Sequence Drilling Mode
(referred to as PTB), in addition to the existing cap piercing option of Standard sequence drilling
mode.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and assay methods. The difference
is in minor hardware and mechanical components to increase the reliability of operation, software to
provide operator/user use enhancements and the addition of new option using capped tubes.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis(Attachment 5A)
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied (Attachment 3C)
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and (Attachment
1)
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review. (Attachment 1)
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.