
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K093224
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
DensiCHEK™ Plus - K083536
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
The Indication/Intended Use statement has not changed.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The modifications were:
●The addition of yeast susceptibility test card, AST-YS, for use in conjunction with the DensiCHEK™
Plus Instrument.
● The addition of AST-YS to Table 2: Organism Suspension Range in the DensiCHEK™ Plus
Instrument User Manual to reflect that performance has been established for VITEK 2 AST-YS
card and is now appropriate for use with the DensiCHEK™ Plus Instrument.
●Removal of the following footnote from under Table 2: Organism Suspension Range in the
DensiCHEK™ Plus Instrument User Manual: “Note: *The performance has not been established
for the AST YS card.”

--- Page 2 ---
2
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and
Item Device: DensiCHEK™ Plus, Predicate: DensiCHEK™ Plus
Modified (K083536)
Similarities
Intended Use The DensiCHEK Plus instrument Same
is intended for use with the
VITEK® and VITEK® 2 Systems
to measure the optical density of
a microorganism suspension.
The instrument provides values
in McFarland units, proportional
to microorganism concentrations.
DensiCHEK™ Plus is indicated
for use with polystyrene and
glass test tubes and the reading
range is 0.0-4.0 McFarland. The
DensiCHEK™ Plus has
application as an in vitro
diagnostic device.
Test Method The DensiCHEK™ Plus uses an Same
LED as the light source to
measure the amount of bacteria
suspended in liquid medium and
convert that optical density into a
McFarland standard. It then
displays a digital reading of the
McFarland unit.
Inoculum Saline suspension of organism Same
Differences
VITEK® / VITEK® 2 Products GPI, GPS, GNI+, GNS, YBC, GPI, GPS, GNI+, GNS, YBC,
Appropriate for Use with NHI, ANI, GN, AST GN, GP, AST NHI, ANI, GN, AST GN, GP, AST
DensiCHEK Plus (performance GP, YST, AST YS, NH, ANC GP, YST, NH, ANC
established)

[Table 1 on page 2]
Item				Device: DensiCHEK™ Plus,			Predicate: DensiCHEK™ Plus	
				Modified			(K083536)	
	Similarities							
Intended Use			The DensiCHEK Plus instrument
is intended for use with the
VITEK® and VITEK® 2 Systems
to measure the optical density of
a microorganism suspension.
The instrument provides values
in McFarland units, proportional
to microorganism concentrations.
DensiCHEK™ Plus is indicated
for use with polystyrene and
glass test tubes and the reading
range is 0.0-4.0 McFarland. The
DensiCHEK™ Plus has
application as an in vitro
diagnostic device.			Same		
Test Method			The DensiCHEK™ Plus uses an
LED as the light source to
measure the amount of bacteria
suspended in liquid medium and
convert that optical density into a
McFarland standard. It then
displays a digital reading of the
McFarland unit.			Same		
Inoculum			Saline suspension of organism			Same		
	Differences							
VITEK® / VITEK® 2 Products
Appropriate for Use with
DensiCHEK Plus (performance
established)			GPI, GPS, GNI+, GNS, YBC,
NHI, ANI, GN, AST GN, GP, AST
GP, YST, AST YS, NH, ANC			GPI, GPS, GNI+, GNS, YBC,
NHI, ANI, GN, AST GN, GP, AST
GP, YST, NH, ANC		

--- Page 3 ---
3
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
The design control activities summary:
A risk assessment study was conducted to establish the performance of the DensiCHEK™ Plus with
the VITEK®2 AST YS (yeast susceptibility) card for the drug Fluconazole. VITEK®2 AST YS (yeast
susceptibility) card results obtained from fungal suspensions prepared using the DensiCHEK™ Plus
were compared to the card results from suspensions prepared using the DensiCHEK™. The scope
of the testing included two components Quality Control and Reproducibility.
The Quality Control testing was conducted at one external site. The appropriate quality control
organisms, namely Candida krusei ATCC 6528 and Candida parapsilosis ATCC 22019 were tested
against the drug Fluconazole. Testing yielded results that fell within acceptable range 100% of the
time for both the DensiCHEK™ and DensiCHEK™ Plus.
Site System/ Organism Drug Accept. DC+ DC+ DC+ DC+ DC DC DC DC
Card Range Card Card Card Card Card Card Card Card
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 VTK2/ C. krusei Flucona 8‐>64 16 32 16 16 16 16 16 16
AST‐ ATCC 6258 zole
YS01 C. parapsilosis Flucona <1‐4 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
ATCC 22019 zole
DC+ = DensiCHEK™ Plus DC = DensiCHEK™
The Reproducibility testing was conducted at two external sites and internally. A panel of 10 well
characterized isolates was tested in triplicate for three days at the three sites. Testing yielded results
that were in agreement with the mode greater than 95% of the time. More specifically, the overall
best-case and worst-case reproducibility results were 99.6%, respectively.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Site	System/
Card	Organism	Drug	Accept.
Range		DC+			DC+			DC+			DC+			DC			DC			DC			DC	
						Card			Card			Card			Card			Card			Card			Card			Card	
						1			2			3			4			1			2			3			4	
1	VTK2/
AST‐
YS01	C. krusei
ATCC 6258	Flucona
zole	8‐>64	16			32			16			16			16			16			16			16		
		C. parapsilosis
ATCC 22019	Flucona
zole	<1‐4	2			2			2			2			2			2			2			2		

[Table 2 on page 3]
System/
Card

[Table 3 on page 3]
Accept.
Range

--- Page 4 ---
4
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.