
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k093475
B. Purpose for Submission:
Rebranding of a cleared device
C. Measurand:
Whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Whole blood glucose concentration through a quantitative amperometric assay
(Glucose Oxidase)
E. Applicant:
Hygieia, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BaseSens I Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1345, Glucose Test System
21 CFR § 862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class II (assay) and Class I, reserved (controls)
3. Product code:
NBW, Blood Glucose Test System, Over-the-Counter
CGA, Glucose Oxidase, Glucose
JJX, Single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The BaseSens I Blood Glucose Monitoring System is used for the quantitative
measurement of glucose levels in capillary whole blood as an aid in monitoring
the effectiveness of diabetes management at home or in clinical settings. The
BaseSens I Blood Glucose Monitoring System should be used only for testing
outside the body (in vitro diagnostic use only). The BaseSens I Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is not intended for the diagnosis of or screening for diabetes
1

--- Page 2 ---
mellitus, and is not intended for use on neonates. Testing sites include the
fingertip along with alternate sites testing (AST) on the forearm, palm, thigh and
calf. AST in this system can be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions.
BaseSens I Test Strip is used with the BaseSens I Blood Glucose Meter for
quantitatively measuring glucose in capillary whole blood. The BaseSens I Test
Strip is intended for self-testing outside the body (in vitro diagnostic use only).
The BaseSens I Test Strips are not intended for the diagnosis of or screening for
diabetes mellitus, and are not intended for use on neonates. Testing sites include
the fingertip along with alternate sites testing (AST) on the forearm, palm, thigh
and calf. AST in this system can be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions.
BaseSens I Control A&B Solutions are red liquid to check that both the meters
and test strips are working together properly. It contains a known range of glucose
as written on the bottle.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Not intended for diagnosis or screening of diabetes mellitus
• Not intended for use on neonates
• For in vitro diagnostic use only
• Not for use on critically ill patients, patients in shock, dehydrated patients or
hyperosmolar patients
• AST in this system can be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions
4. Special instrument requirements:
BaseSens I Blood Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
The BaseSens I Blood Glucose Monitoring System (BGMS) is comprised of the
BaseSens I Blood Glucose Meter, the BaseSens I Blood Glucose Test Strips
(glucose oxidase) and the BaseSens I Control Solutions (2 levels).
The BaseSens I BGMS is identical to the CareSens N BGMS (k083468). The
BaseSens I System is a rebranded CareSens N System.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
i-Sens CareSens BGMS
CareSens N BGMS
2. Predicate K number(s):
k080923 and k083468 respectively
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Proposed Device CareSens N BGMS CareSens BGMS
(k083468) (k080923)
Similarities
Intended Use The BaseSens I BGMS is used same same
for the quantitative measurement
of glucose levels in capillary
whole blood as an aid in
monitoring the effectiveness of
diabetes management at home or
in clinical settings. The
BaseSens I BGMS should be
used only for testing outside the
body (in vitro diagnostic use
only). The BaseSens I BGMS is
not intended for the diagnosis of
or screening for diabetes
mellitus, and is not intended for
use on neonates. Testing sites
include the fingertip along with
alternate sites testing (AST) on
the forearm, palm, thigh and calf.
AST in this system can be used
only during steady-state blood
glucose conditions.
Enzyme Amperometric method same same
Measurement Principle Glucose oxidase (A. Niger) same same
Test Principle Glucose oxidase chemical same same
reaction. The instrument
measures the extent of current
caused by the presence of
glucose in sample.
Sample Fresh capillary whole blood same same
Electrode Carbon same same
Calibration Plasma-equivalent same same
Test time (seconds) 5 same same
Sample volume (μl) 0.5 same same
Memory 250 same same
Test range (mg/dL) 20 to 600 same same
Hematocrit range (%) 20 to 60 (below 400 mg/dL) same same
Glucose units mg/dL or mmol/L (default is same same
mg/dL)
Alternate site testing Yes same same
Operating humidity 10 to 90 % same same
Differences
Coding Automatic code identification same Manual input
Self-diagnosis of code Yes same No
identification function
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item	Proposed Device		CareSens N BGMS			CareSens BGMS	
			(k083468)			(k080923)	
Similarities							
Intended Use	The BaseSens I BGMS is used
for the quantitative measurement
of glucose levels in capillary
whole blood as an aid in
monitoring the effectiveness of
diabetes management at home or
in clinical settings. The
BaseSens I BGMS should be
used only for testing outside the
body (in vitro diagnostic use
only). The BaseSens I BGMS is
not intended for the diagnosis of
or screening for diabetes
mellitus, and is not intended for
use on neonates. Testing sites
include the fingertip along with
alternate sites testing (AST) on
the forearm, palm, thigh and calf.
AST in this system can be used
only during steady-state blood
glucose conditions.	same			same		
Enzyme	Amperometric method	same			same		
Measurement Principle	Glucose oxidase (A. Niger)	same			same		
Test Principle	Glucose oxidase chemical
reaction. The instrument
measures the extent of current
caused by the presence of
glucose in sample.	same			same		
Sample	Fresh capillary whole blood	same			same		
Electrode	Carbon	same			same		
Calibration	Plasma-equivalent	same			same		
Test time (seconds)	5	same			same		
Sample volume (μl)	0.5	same			same		
Memory	250	same			same		
Test range (mg/dL)	20 to 600	same			same		
Hematocrit range (%)	20 to 60 (below 400 mg/dL)	same			same		
Glucose units	mg/dL or mmol/L (default is
mg/dL)	same			same		
Alternate site testing	Yes	same			same		
Operating humidity	10 to 90 %	same			same		
Differences							
Coding	Automatic code identification	same			Manual input		
Self-diagnosis of code
identification function	Yes	same			No		

--- Page 4 ---
3 time set alarms and 2 Yes same No
hour post meal alarm
Post-meal flagging Yes same No
Number of buttons 3 same 2 (CareSens II)
1 (CareSens POP)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• ISO 15197:2003, In Vitro Diagnostic Test Systems—Requirements for Blood
Glucose Test Systems for Self Managing Diabetes Mellitus.
• IEC/EN 61601-1-2, (Second Edition, 2001), Medical Electrical Equipment - Part
1-2: General Requirements for Safety - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic
Compatibility -- Requirements and Tests. (General)
L. Test Principle:
The BaseSens I Blood Glucose Monitoring System uses electrochemical
methodologies. The system quantitatively measures blood glucose levels using an
amperometric method, which involves detecting the current produced from glucose
oxidation. The electrons generated during this reaction are transferred from the blood
to the electrodes. The magnitude of the resultant current is proportional to the
concentration of glucose in the specimen and the signal is converted into a readout
displayed on the meter.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Established in k080923 and k083468
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Established in k080923 and k083468
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Established in k080923 and k083468
d. Detection limit:
Established in k080923 and k083468
e. Analytical specificity:
Established in k080923 and k083468
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
3 time set alarms and 2
hour post meal alarm	Yes	same	No
Post-meal flagging	Yes	same	No
Number of buttons	3	same	2 (CareSens II)
1 (CareSens POP)

--- Page 5 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Established in k080923 and k083468
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected blood glucose levels for people without diabetes (referenced from
Diagnosis of Diabetes, NIH Publication No. 05-4642, January 2005.)
Time Range (mg/dL) Range (mmol/L)
Fasting 70 to 110 3.9 to 6.1
One hour after meals less than 160 less than 8.9
N. Instrument Name:
BaseSens I Blood Glucose Meter
O. Systems Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Each test strip is single use and must be replaced with a new strip for additional
readings.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?:
Yes oor No X o
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?:
Yes oor No X o
5

--- Page 6 ---
2. Software:
Reviewed under k080923 and k083468
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied
directly to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
This device is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from the finger,
which can be applied directly to the test strip.
5. Calibration:
The device has automatic code identification. No further calibration is required.
6. Quality Control:
The sponsor has two levels of controls available for the system (not included in
the kit but available for purchase). When a test strip is inserted into the meter,
each control can be measured by following the instructions for “Checking the
System” provided in the Owner’s Booklet of the system. An acceptable range for
each control level is printed on the test strip vial label. The user is instructed to
contact the Customer Help Line during the operational times or a healthcare
provider outside the operational times if the control results fall outside these
ranges.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not applicable
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6