
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k100853
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
Roche Diagnostics cobas 6000 analyzer series (k060373) (which includes the cobas 6000 control
and core units, data management software, the c501 module which is comprised of photometric and
ISE units, and the e601 electrochemistry immunoassay module), Indirect ISE (Na, K, and Cl)
reagents
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
• New analyzer series, cobas 8000 Modular Analyzer (which includes the cobas 8000
control and core units, data management software, indirect ISE module, a new c 502 module,
and a new c 701 module) and associated reagents
• Integration and connectivity of the new c 502, new c 701, and indirect ISE modules
(with only cosmetic and sample rack interface to accommodate module
integration).
• Indirect ISE (Na, K, and Cl) reagent application on the modified device
• IgA-2 reagent application on the modified device
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and performance characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use for the
device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and
the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental
scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The
New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the
previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.