
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k100716
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device
C. Measurand:
D-dimer
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific, Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5425
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN-Plasma, Coagulation Control
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set is a quantitative, assayed quality
control material consisting of five levels of D-dimer analyte. The five D-dimer
levels demonstrate a linear relationship to each other for D-dimer analyte. The
AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set is intended to use with the
Biomerieux miniVIDAS® analyzer and VIDAS® D-dimer assay to verify the
calibration of the measuring range. AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set is
“For In Vitro Diagnostic Use Only.”
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use(s)
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Biomerieux miniVIDAS® analyzer and VIDAS® D-dimer assay
I. Device Description:
The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set is a human based, lyophilized, five
level set of QC material, A, B, C, D, and E. Each level contains D-dimer complex. It
is used to confirm the proper calibration of the measuring range of D-dimer on the
miniVIDAS® analyzer. Level A D-dimer is near the lower limit level and level E D-
dimer is near the upper limit of the measuring range. Levels B, C, and D are related
by linear dilution of level A and level E. The target ranges for five levels are:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Levels A B C D E
Target Range <150 ng/mL 1105-1495 ng/mL 2010-2760 ng/mL 2145-4255 ng/mL 3700-6000 ng/mL
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Triage® D-dimer Calibration Verification Controls
2. Predicate K number(s):
k050799
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device: AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Predicate: Triage® D-dimer Calibration
Linearity Set Verification Controls
Intended Use The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer The Triage® D-dimer Calibration
Linearity Set is a quantitative, assayed Verification Controls are to be used with
quality control material consisting of five the Triage® D-dimer Test and Triage®
levels of D-dimer analyte. The five D- MeterPlus to verify the calibration of the
dimer levels demonstrate a linear Triage® D-dimer test throughout the
relationship to each other for D-dimer measurable range.
analyte. The AuditTM MicroCVTM D- The Triage® D-dimer Calibration
Dimer Linearity Set is intended to use Verification Controls are assayed
with the Biomerieux miniVIDAS® materials to be used with the Triage® D-
analyzer and VIDAS® D-dimer assay to dimer Test and Triage® MeterPlus to
verify the calibration of the measuring assist the laboratory in monitoring test
range. performance.
Number of 5 Same
levels per set
Matrix Human based plasma Same
Differences
Item
Matrix Lyophilized Liquid
Closed vial 2-8ºC for 24 months -20ºC for 9 months
stability
Open vial 2 days when stored at 2-8°C 1 day when stored at 2-8°C
stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP06-A: Evaluation of Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures: A
Statistical Approach.
L. Test Principle:
The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set is used to verify the calibration of
the D-dimer measuring range of the miniVIDAS® analyzer.
M. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Levels	A	B	C	D	E
Target Range	<150 ng/mL	1105-1495 ng/mL	2010-2760 ng/mL	2145-4255 ng/mL	3700-6000 ng/mL

[Table 2 on page 2]
Similarities						
Item		Device: AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer			Predicate: Triage® D-dimer Calibration	
		Linearity Set			Verification Controls	
Intended Use	The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer
Linearity Set is a quantitative, assayed
quality control material consisting of five
levels of D-dimer analyte. The five D-
dimer levels demonstrate a linear
relationship to each other for D-dimer
analyte. The AuditTM MicroCVTM D-
Dimer Linearity Set is intended to use
miniVIDAS®
with the Biomerieux
analyzer and VIDAS® D-dimer assay to
verify the calibration of the measuring
range.			The Triage® D-dimer Calibration
Verification Controls are to be used with
the Triage® D-dimer Test and Triage®
MeterPlus to verify the calibration of the
Triage® D-dimer test throughout the
measurable range.
The Triage® D-dimer Calibration
Verification Controls are assayed
materials to be used with the Triage® D-
dimer Test and Triage® MeterPlus to
assist the laboratory in monitoring test
performance.		
Number of
levels per set	5			Same		
Matrix	Human based plasma			Same		

[Table 3 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item							
Matrix			Lyophilized			Liquid		
Closed vial
stability			2-8ºC for 24 months			-20ºC for 9 months		
Open vial
stability			2 days when stored at 2-8°C			1 day when stored at 2-8°C		

--- Page 3 ---
For each level of D-Dimer Linearity Set, 15 replicates were tested on the
miniVIDAS® on three lots. All levels resulted <10% CV.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity was determined using three lots of the D-Dimer Linearity Set. The
mean D-dimer concentration of each of the 5 levels was plotted vs. five
assigned levels of concentration. A linear regression value was obtained for
each lot, and all results were within the limit of acceptance r2 > 0.95.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
• Traceability: All reagent components are obtained from commercial
vendors.
• Open vial stability: A 2-day open vial stability claim was verified using
three lots of the AuditTM MicroCVTM D-Dimer Linearity Set. All 5 levels
were tested on day zero and day 2. The percent recovery is determined in
comparison to day zero values. The percent recovery is within ±10% limit
of acceptance.
• Closed vial stability: An accelerated stability is used to predict shelf life.
The vials are stressed at 25°C for 64 days to predict two-year stability
when stored at 2-8°C. The percent recovery of all levels is determined in
comparison to day zero values and the product is considered stable when
the recovered values are within ±10%. Real time studies are ongoing to
support the shelf life of the product.
• Value assignment: For each level of D-Dimer Linearity Set, 15 separate
vials were tested on one miniVIDAS® analyzer yielding 15 measurements.
The mean of each level was used to calculate the target concentration.
The target range of each level was calculated as ±1SD of the target
concentration.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The mean and expected assay range for each level are provided in the labeling.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4