
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K100818
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain substantial equivalence for the Illumigene C. difficile assay
C. Measurand:
C. difficile toxin A gene
D. Type of Test:
Loop mediated isothermal amplification
E. Applicant:
Meridian Bioscience Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Illumigene C. difficile Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.2660 – Microorganism differentiation and identification device
2. Classification:
Class 1
3. Product code:
OMN – C. difficile nucleic acids
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83 - Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The illumigene C. difficile DNA amplification assay, performed on the illumipro-10, is a
qualitative in vitro diagnostic test for the direct detection of toxigenic C. difficile in
human stool specimens from patients suspected of having Clostridium difficile-associated
disease (CDAD).
The illumigene C. difficile assay utilizes loop-mediated isothermal DNA amplification
(LAMP) technology to detect the pathogenicity locus (PaLoc) of toxigenic Clostridium
difficile. The Clostridium difficile PaLoc is a gene segment present in all known
toxigenic C. difficile strains. The C. difficile PaLoc codes for both the Toxin A gene
(tcdA) and the Toxin B gene (tcdB), has conserved border regions, and is found at the
same site on the C. difficile genome for all toxigenic strains. The illumigene C. difficile
assay detects the PaLoc by targeting a partial DNA fragment on the Toxin A gene. The
tcdA target region was selected as an intact region remaining in all known A+/B+ and A-
/B+ toxinotypes.
illumigene C. difficile is intended for use in hospital, reference or state laboratory
settings. The device is not intended for point-of-care use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The illumigene C. difficile DNA amplification assay, performed on the illumipro-10, is a
qualitative in vitro diagnostic test for the direct detection of toxigenic C. difficile in
human stool specimens from patients suspected of having Clostridium difficile-associated
disease (CDAD).
The illumigene C. difficile assay utilizes loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP)
technology to detect the pathogenicity locus (PaLoc) of toxigenic Clostridium difficile.
The Clostridium difficile PaLoc is a gene segment present in all known toxigenic C.
difficile strains. The C. difficile PaLoc codes for both the Toxin A gene (tcdA) and the
Toxin B gene (tcdB), has conserved border regions, and is found at the same site on the
C. difficile genome for all toxigenic strains. The illumigene C. difficile assay detects the
PaLoc by targeting a partial DNA fragment on the Toxin A gene. The tcdA target region
was selected as an intact region remaining in all known A+/B+ and A-/B+ toxinotypes.
illumigene C. difficile is intended for use in hospital, reference or state laboratory
settings. The device is not intended for point-of-care use.
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement:
For professional use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Illumipro -10 Automated Isothermal Amplification and Detection System
I. Device Description:
The illumigene Molecular Diagnostic Test System is comprised of the illumigene C.
difficile DNA Amplification Test Kit, the illumigene C. difficile External Control Kit and
the illumipro-10 Automated Isothermal Amplification and Detection System. Additional
specialized laboratory equipment is not required for execution of illumigene Molecular
Diagnostic Test System assays.
The illumigene C. difficile DNA amplification assay utilizes loop-mediated isothermal
amplification (LAMP) technology to detect the presence of toxigenic C. difficile in
patients suspected of having C. difficile associated disease (CDAD). Each illumigene C.
difficile assay is completed using materials provided: illumigene Sample Preparation
Apparatus, illumigene Reaction Buffer, illumigene C. difficile Test Device, Sample
Collection Brush, and illumi gene Extraction Tube. Samples are prepared using the
Sample Collection Brush and the illumigene Sample Collection Apparatus, target DNA is
heat extracted in the Extraction Tube and DNA amplification occurs in the illumigene C.
difficile Test Device.
The illumipro-10 heats each illumi gene C. difficile Test Device containing prepared
samples, facilitating amplification of target DNA. When toxigenic C. difficile is present
in the patient sample, a cytotoxin specific sequence is amplified and magnesium
pyrophosphate is formed. As the LAMP reaction progresses, magnesium pyrophosphate
forms a precipitate in the reaction mixture. The optics system of the illumipro-10 detects
the change in light transmission through the reaction mixture created by the precipitating
Magnesium pyrophosphate. Sample results are reported as Positive or Negative based on
the detected change in transmission.
The illumigene C. difficile External Control Kit consists of a Positive Control Reagent
and a Negative Control Reagent. External Control reagents are provided to aid the user in
detection of reagent deterioration, adverse environmental or test conditions, or variance
in operator performance that may lead to test errors. The illumigene C. difficile External
Control Kit is required for routine Quality Control.
Final Component Summary
illumigene C. difficile DNA Amplification Assay
3

--- Page 4 ---
·illumigene C. difficile Sample Preparation Apparatus: Sampling unit consisting of
sample preparation chamber, dropper tip, cap and Sample Dilution Buffer (Phosphate
Buffered Saline and formalin treated Staphylococcus aureus , with sodium azide (0.09%)
as a preservative)
·illumigene Reaction Buffer: Tris-buffered solution containing sodium azide (0.09%)as
a preservative
·illumigene C. difficile Test Device: Two separate chambers containing dry reagent
lyospheres comprised of DNA polymerase, Deoxyribonucleoside Triphsophate (dNTPs),
and either C. difficile specific primers (TEST Chamber) or S. aureus primers (CONTROL
Chamber). The Control lyosphere contains quinoline yellow dye to differentiate it from
the Test lyosphere
·Sample Collection Brushes: Tube cap fitted with stainless steel rod and nylon bristles
·illumigene Extraction Tubes: 1.5 mL polypropylene microcentrifuge tubes with caps;
RNase, DNase and pyrogen-free
illumigene C. difficile External Control Kit
·illumigene Positive Control: Tris-buffered solution containing non-infectious Plasmid
DNA (S. aureus and C. difficile inserts) with azide (0.09%) as a preservative
·illumigene Negative Control: Tris-buffered solution containing non-infectious Plasmid
DNA (S. aureus insert) with azide (0.09%) as a preservative
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Cepheid Xpert C.difficile
2. Predicate 510(k) number:
K091109
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Sample matrix Uniformed unpreserved Same
stool samples
Assay type DNA amplification Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Assay targets a conserved Assay targets the toxin B
DNA fragment on the toxin (tcdB) gene
A (tcdA) gene in the
pathogenicity locus of
toxigenic C. difficile.
Instrument Assay uses the Illumipro-10 Assay uses the Cepheid
instrument GeneXpert Dx System
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample matrix			Uniformed unpreserved
stool samples			Same		
Assay type			DNA amplification			Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Assay targets a conserved
DNA fragment on the toxin
A (tcdA) gene in the
pathogenicity locus of
toxigenic C. difficile.			Assay targets the toxin B
(tcdB) gene		
Instrument			Assay uses the Illumipro-10
instrument			Assay uses the Cepheid
GeneXpert Dx System		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Detection method Assay uses loop mediated Assay uses automated real
isothermal amplification time polymerase chain
(LAMP) technology and reaction (PCR) and detects
detects changes in turbidity fluorescence
by visible light transmission
Transport media Sample in Cary Blair media Not for use with Cary Blair
is acceptable media
Extraction method Manual Self contained, automated
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance (EP 12-A2)
User Verification of Performance for Precision and Trueness (IVD) (EP 15-A2)
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Class II Special Controls Guidance Document:
Nucleic Acid Amplification Assay for the Detection of Enterovirus RNA
Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices - Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff
Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Establishing the Performance Characteristics of
In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Detection or Detection and Differentiation of Influenza
Viruses
General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff
L. Test Principle:
The illumigene C. difficile Assay is based on loop-mediated isothermal amplification
technology (LAMP). Loop-mediated amplification is accomplished by the use of specially
designed primers that provide specific and continuous isothermal DNA amplification.
Magnesium-pyrophosphate is produced as a by-product of LAMP amplification. The
magnesium-pyrophosphate forms a white precipitate in the reaction solution, giving the
reaction solution a turbid appearance. The presence of turbidity signifies a positive reaction
while the absence of turbidity represents a negative reaction.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences							
	Item			Device			Predicate
Detection method			Assay uses loop mediated
isothermal amplification
(LAMP) technology and
detects changes in turbidity
by visible light transmission			Assay uses automated real
time polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) and detects
fluorescence	
Transport media			Sample in Cary Blair media
is acceptable			Not for use with Cary Blair
media	
Extraction method			Manual			Self contained, automated	
							

[Table 2 on page 5]
User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance (EP 12-A2)
User Verification of Performance for Precision and Trueness (IVD) (EP 15-A2)
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Class II Special Controls Guidance Document:
Nucleic Acid Amplification Assay for the Detection of Enterovirus RNA
Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices - Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff
Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Establishing the Performance Characteristics of
In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Detection or Detection and Differentiation of Influenza
Viruses
General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff

--- Page 6 ---
The Toxigenic C. difficile Pathogen Locus (PaLoc) and illumigene C. difficile Primer
Regions:
The illumigene C. difficile assay contains primers that specifically amplify an ~204 base pair
(bp) sequence within the 5’ region of the toxin A (tcdA) gene that is part of the cytotoxin
pathogen locus found in toxigenic C. difficile. This region is found in all cytotoxin positive
(A+/B+ and A-/B+) strains characterized and is not present in cytotoxin negative strains (A-
/B-).
The illumigene C. difficile assay detects the presence of toxigenic C. difficile in stool samples
from patients suspected of having Clostridium difficile associated disease in the following
manner:
Patient stool sample is collected using the sample brush portion of the illumigene Sample
Collection Apparatus. The sample is added to the Sample Collection Apparatus containing
Sample Dilution Buffer and formalin treated Staphylococcus aureus. S. aureus serves as an
internal control for inhibition and system suitability.
The diluted sample is mixed, filtered through the Sample Collection Apparatus and dispensed
drop-wise into an illumi gene Extraction Tube. The Extraction Tube is heated to facilitate
DNA extraction of the sample and the internal control material.
Extracted DNA is added to an illumigene Reaction Buffer tube, mixed and added to the
illumigene C. difficile Test Device. The illumi gene Test Device consists of two chambers,
one for the sample (TEST) and one for the internal assay control (CONTROL). The TEST
chamber contains a lyosphere comprised of DisplaceAce™ DNA polymerase, dNTPs,
Bovine Serum Albumin, and illumigene C. difficile primers. The CONTROL chamber
contains a lyosphere comprised of DisplaceAce™ DNA polymerase, dNTPs, Bovine Serum
Albumin, yellow dye and illumigene Staphylococcus aureus internal control primers.
The Test Device is placed in the illumipro-10™ for amplification and detection.
Amplification occurs when the illumigene C. difficile Test Device is incubated at 63 C.
When toxigenic C. difficile is present in the patient sample, the cytotoxin specific sequence is
amplified. Magnesium pyrophosphate, a by-product of DNA amplification, will reach
saturation and precipitate producing a turbid solution in the TEST chamber of the Test
Device. When sample preparation and the assay procedure have has been performed
successfully and inhibition has not occurred, DNA from the internal control will amplify.
Magnesium pyrophosphate will precipitate and form a turbid solution in the CONTROL
chamber of the test device. Assay reactions take place in approximately 40 minutes.
Light transmission (650 ± 20 nm) through the TEST and CONTROL solutions is measured
by the illumipro-10 at the on-set of the assay run and at completion. The illumipro-10
calculates the ratio between the initial absorbance reading and the final absorbance reading
and compares the ratio to an established cut-off value. Valid test results will be reported for a
change in absorbance above 90% in the CONTROL chamber. Positive test results will be
reported for a change in absorbance above 90% in the TEST chamber and the CONTROL
6

--- Page 7 ---
chamber.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility studies were performed by three clinical sites using coded panels.
The panels consisted of moderately positive (n=2), low positive (n=3), high negative
(n=3) and negative (n=2) samples. The moderately positive and low positive samples
were contrived from negative specimens spiked with toxinogenic C. difficile VPI
10463 to just above the LoD for the strain (weak positive) or below the limit of blank
(high negative sample), as determined by replicate testing during manufacture of the
samples. Negative samples were natural samples. Three lots of illumigene C.
difficile and nine illumi pro-10 instruments were used in reproducibility studies.
Positive and Negative Controls were tested with each panel. Each clinical site tested
two panels each day for five days. At least two operators each day at each facility
performed the testing to demonstrate reproducibility. Reproducibility of the assay is
100% for moderate positive, low positive and negative samples. Reproducibility is
91% for high negative samples.
Positive samples were contrived from negative specimens. The moderately positive
and low positive samples were contrived from negative specimens spiked with
toxinogenic C. difficile VPI 10463 to just above the LoD for the strain (weak
positive) or below the limit of blank (high negative sample), as determined by
replicate testing during manufacture of the samples. Negative samples were natural
samples. Final concentrations of C. difficile in reproducibility panel samples
were as follows: Moderate Positive: 200 CFU/test (Positive) Low Positive: 64
CFU/test (Positive) High Negative: 0.5 CFU/test (Negative)
The sources of variability examined in the study included operators (minimum 2 at
each site), laboratories (3 sites), runs (Panels tested twice per day), test date (panels
tested for five days), and illumi pro-10 instruments (9 instruments).
Precision (within-run and within-laboratory) was calculated following CLSI EP 15-
A2. 95% confidence intervals were calculated using the Wilson method.
Reproducibility of the assay is 100% for moderate positive, low positive and negative
samples. Reproducibility is 91% for high negative samples. Sample type and replicate
data is as follows: Percent Agreement Positive Samples: 60/60 Replicates or 100%
Percent Agreement Low Positive: 90/90 Replicates or 100% Percent Agreement High
Negative: 82/90 Replicates or 91% Percent Agreement Negative: 59/59 Replicates or
100% (One negative sample produced an invalid result during testing. This value was
not included in the calculations.)
7

--- Page 8 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Internal control is provided in the Sample Preparation Apparatus and the Assay
Device. The Sample Preparation Apparatus contains Sample Dilution Buffer with
formalin treated Staphylococcus aureus. The CONTROL Chamber of the Assay
Device contains a lyosphere with S. aureus primers. The internal control has the same
reactants to that of the test chamber except for the primer composition and a yellow
dye. Internal Control components are intended to monitor sample preparation,
polymerase inhibition, system suitability and reagent integrity.
illumigene External Control Reagents will be sold separately as adjunct reagents to
the illumigene C. difficile Assay. Each External Control kit contains a Negative
Control reagent and a Positive Control reagent. External Controls aid the user in
detection of reagent deterioration, adverse environmental or test conditions or
variance in operator performance that can cause test errors. External Controls are
required for routine Quality Control.
Positive Control: Tris-buffered solution containing non-infectious Plasmid DNA (S.
aureus and C. difficile inserts) at 200.0 fg/μL with sodium azide (0.09%) as a
preservative.
Negative Control: Tris-buffered solution containing non-infectious Plasmid DNA (S.
aureus insert) at 200.0 fg/μL with sodium azide (0.09%) as a preservative.
d. Detection limit:
Sensitivity studies were designed to determine, within 95% confidence intervals, the analytical
limit of detection (LoD) of C. difficile diluted in a human stool matrix. The LoD is the lowest
number of colony-forming units (CFUs) per test aliquot that can be distinguished from Native
samples with a high degree of probability.
Seven different strains representing five toxinotypes of C. difficile were evaluated. Each bacterial
strain was spiked into negative stool and then diluted serially. Twenty replicates of each dilution
were individually processed and tested to give a stated probability of 95% for the LoD dilution.
The results obtained with each individual strain are given in Tables 2 – 5 on the following pages.
The LoD point estimates and 95% upper and lower confidence intervals for each toxinotype are
summarized in Table 1 below.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Table 1. 95% confidence intervals for illumigene C. difficile analytical LoD.
Strain ID Toxinotype Phenotype LoD/Test Lower Limit Upper Limit
(95% CI) (95% CI)
VPI 10463 0 A+/B+ 4 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
2007431 III (NAP1) A+/B+ 32 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
BI8 III A+/B+ 64 CFU/test 76.4% 99.1%
2006240 V (NAP7) A+/B+ 32 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
CF1 VIII A-/B+ 64 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
2007858 IX/XXIII A+/B+ 32 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
8864 X A-/B+ 64 CFU/test 83.9% 100%
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference Studies:
Potentially interfering substances were added to a natural negative and a contrived
positive sample at final concentrations of 5% v/v or greater. The contrived positive
samples were prepared from a pool of donor stools that were confirmed negative by
toxinogenic culture. The sample was inoculated with C. difficile VPI 10463 to just
above the limit of detection (18 CFU/test) for this organism.
Potentially interfering substances were added at final concentrations of 5% V/V or
greater. Dilution Controls for each sample were prepared by adding a phosphate-
buffered saline solution in place of the potentially interfering substance. Each sample
was tested in triplicate. The following substances, at the specified saturated
solvent/diluents concentrations, were included in the study: Barium sulfate (5
mg/mL), fecal fat (equivalent to 2.65 mg stearic plus 1.3 mg palmitic acids per mL),
hemoglobin (as methemoglobin) (3.2 mg/mL), IgA (5 mg/mL), Imodium AD®
(0.00667 mg/mL), Kaopectate® (0.87 mg/mL), Metronidazole (12.5 mg/mL), mucin
(3.33 mg/mL) Mylanta® (4.2 mg/mL), Pepto-Bismol® (0.87 mg/mL), Prilosec® (0.5
mg/mL), Tagamet® (0.5 mg/mL), TUMS® (0.5 mg/mL), Vancomycin (12.5
mg/mL), white blood cells (5%V/V), whole blood (5% V/V).
Crossreactivity Studies:
Potentially crossreactive or interfering microorganisms were added to a natural
negative and a contrived positive sample at concentrations of 1.2 X 108/mL (bacteria
and fungi) or at a minimum of 1 X 10 5.06 TCID /mL (viruses). The contrived
50
positive sample was prepared from a pool of donor stools that were confirmed
negative by toxinogenic culture. The sample was inoculated with toxinogenic C.
difficile VPI 10463 to just above the limit of detection (18 CFU/test) for this strain.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Potentially cross-reactive microorganisms were added at concentrations of 1.2 x
108/mL (bacteria and fungi) or at a minimum of 1 x 10 5.06 /mL TCID /mL (viruses).
50
Dilution Controls for each sample were prepared by adding a phosphate-buffered
saline solution in place of the potentially cross-reactive microorganisms. Each
potential cross-reactive microorganism was tested in replicates of three. The
following microorganisms were included in the study: Aeromonas hydrophila,
Bacteroides fragilis, Campylobacter coli, Campylobacter fetus, Campylobacter
jejuni, Candida albicans, Citrobacter freundii, Clostridium sordellii, Clostridium
perfringens, Enterobacter cloacae, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli,
Escherichia coli O157:H7, Escherichia fergusonii, Escherichia hermannii,
Helicobacter pylori, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Lactococcus lactis, Listeria
monocytogenes, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius, Plesiomonas shigelloides, Proteus
vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Salmonella Groups B-
E, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia marcescens, Shigella boydii, Shigella flexneri,
Shigella sonnei, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Vibrio
parahaemolyticus, Yersinia enterocolitica, Adenovirus Types 40 and 41,
Coxsackievirus, Echovirus, Rotavirus.
Strain Reactivity Studies:
Aliquots from culture filtrates of each organism were first adjusted to MacFarland
Standard 4 (approximately 1.2 X 109), then spiked into a natural negative stool matrix
to a final concentration of (1) 64 CFU/test (the LoD at 95% confidence as determined
in the LoD study, and (2) at 100 times the LoD (to represent heavily infected
samples).
Strain reactivity studies were performed by testing C. difficile stock cultures from
different sources at 64 CFU/test and 640 CFU/test with illumigene C. difficile. Each
sample was testing in triplicate. Strains and toxinotypes tested were as follows: Type
0 Strains: 10463, 2004111, 2004205, 2005070, 2005257, 2008029, 2008162,
2008341, 2008351, 2009066, 2009099, B1, G1, J7, K12, Y1; Type III Strains:
2004052, 2004118, 2007431, BI17, BI8; Type V Strains: 2005325, 2006240,
2008188, 2009018, 2009065, BK6; Type VIII Strains: 43598, 2008016, CF1; Type
X Strains: 8864; Type XII Strains: 2007435; Type IX/XXIII Strains: 2007858;
Unknown Strains: 2009132, 2009155, 2009277.
f. Assay cut-off:
The assay has a fixed cut-off based on the measured change in light transmission at
the assay endpoint. There are no range values for the cut-off. The illumipro-10
measures the transmission of light through the Test Solution and the Control Solution
at the start of the Assay Run and at the end point of the Assay Run, approximately 40
minutes for the illumigene C. difficile assay. The illumipro-10 calculates the ratio of
the Run End (Signal final or S) reads with the Run Start (Signal Initial or S) reads.
f i
Calculated S : S ratios less than 90% are reported as positive; Calculated S :S
f i f i
ratios greater than or equal to 90% are reported as negative. Fixed cut-off values
10

--- Page 11 ---
were based on well characterized clinical specimens.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Only discrepant samples were tested with the predicate device, Cepheid® Xpert® C.
difficile, and TECHLAB® C. DIFF CHEK™ - 60.
Of 5 false-negative samples, 2 were negative by an FDA-cleared molecular assay.
Of 27 false-positive samples, 15 were positive by an FDA-cleared molecular assay
Of the 12 remaining false-positive samples, 8 were positive by an FDA-cleared
assay for C. difficile Common Antigen.
b. Matrix comparison:
N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Samples utilized in this study were stool specimens from patients suspected of having
C. difficile associated disease. No restrictions with regard to age, gender or
geographical location were included. All samples were left-over samples. The
consistency of each sample was categorized as solid, semisolid, bloody, and watery
with no solids or in transport medium. A total of 697 qualified patient samples were
used in the study. One sample was obtained per patient. Two tests were performed
with each sample (cytotoxic bacterial culture and illumigene C. difficile assay).
Performance characteristics of the illumigene C. difficile assay were determined by
comparison to cytotoxic bacterial culture. Four independent clinical test sites located
in the Midwestern and Southern regions of the United States and the manufacturer
evaluated a total of 697 qualified patient samples. Samples were collected from 274
(39.3%) males and 419 (60.1%) females. In the case of 4 (0.6%) of the patients, sex
was not known. The age groups of patients range from 2 years of age to 96 years. No
differences in test performance were observed based on patient age, sex, or
geographical location.
Overall sensitivity was determined to be 95.2% (95% CI: 89.2% - 97.9%); overall
specificity was determined to be 95.3% (95% CI: 93.2% - 96.7%).
11

--- Page 12 ---
Overall performance data
Cytotoxic bacterial illumigene C. difficile
culture
Positive Negative Total
Positive 99 5 104
Negative 27 546 573
Total 126 551 677
95% CI
Sensitivity 99/104 95.2% 89.2 - 97.9%
Specificity 546/573 95.3% 93.2 - 96.7%
Correlation 645/677 95.3% 93.4 - 96.6%
b. Clinical specificity:
See 3(a) above
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
N/A
4. Clinical cut-off:
N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Samples used in this study were left-over samples for which a physician had ordered C.
difficile testing. Observed C. difficile prevalence rate was approximately 15%.
N. Instrument Name:
The illumipro-10
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The illumipro-10 is a menu driven laboratory instrument with two independent sample
processing blocks: Block A and Block B. Each illumipro-10 Block is capable of batch
processing up to five closed illumigene test devices.
The illumipro-10 operates in four basic modes: ASSAY, RESULTS, SERVICE, and
SYSTEM. Assay Selection and Sample Amplification occur in the ASSAY mode; Test
Results are managed in the RESULTS mode; Basic instrument set-up is performed in the
SYSTEM mode; and Optical performance verification is completed in the SERVICE
12

--- Page 13 ---
mode.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ____X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Samples are identified by position. Default Sample Identification is based on Block and
Well position (e.g. Block A, Well 1). The user may input Sample Identification
information using the keypad, the barcode scanner or the optional external keyboard.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen Sampling and Handling is performed external to the illumi pro-10. Prepared
Samples in closed illumigene Test Devices are placed in the illumipro-10 for
amplification and detection. The illumipro-10 has no direct contact with samples. Closed
illumigene Test Devices are discarded at the end of the assay to reduce the likelihood of
contamination of the illumipro-10 or the workspace.
5. Calibration:
The illumipro-10 was designed to be a self-monitoring instrument. Calibration by the end
user is not required.
6. Quality Control:
Quality Control requirements for the illumipro-10 are limited to verification of optical
performance and routine surface cleaning/decontamination. Optics system verification is
performed by the user at installation and at 30 day intervals thereafter. Optics
Verification Standards consist of ten red acrylic pieces molded and polished to replicate
the dimensions of each illumigene Test Device chamber. The verification standards act
like a high pass optical filter with the pass wavelength of 650 nm extending into the
infrared range. Light transmission through the verification standard is used to confirm
proper performance of the optics system. Failed optics verification testing for an
instrument block will disable the block until the error is resolved. The illumipro-10
completes a Power-On Self Test (POST) at each power-on. POST testing confirms that
the Hardware and Software elements of the system are performing as expected. The
illumipro-10 reports an error if POST failures are obtained; the instrument is disabled
until the error is resolved.
13

--- Page 14 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
N/A
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
14