
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k100293
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration materials for estradiol assay
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ADVIA Centaur systems, ADVIA Centaur Calibrator 30
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150 Calibrator, Secondary
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
For in vitro diagnostic use in calibrating the Enhanced Estradiol (eE2) Assay.
ADVIA Centaur calibrator 30 is a device intended for medical purposes for use in
Estradiol Assay to establish points of reference that are used in the determination
of values in the measurement of Estradiol in human serum, Heparinized and
EDTA Plasma.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ADVIA Centaur and ADVIA Centaur XP systems.
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator 30 is a 2 level human plasma based solutions
containing varying concentrations of USP Estradiol, Testosterone, Cortisol and
Progesterone spiked in charcoal stripped defibrinated human plasma, 0.1% Sodium
azide and preservatives. All human source materials used in the manufacture of this
product was tested by FDA-approved methods and found nonreactive for hepatitis B
surface antigen (HBsAg), antibody to hepatitis C (HCV), and antibody to HIV-1/2,
The Estradiol calibrators have expected values of 35 and 2500 pg/mL. ADVIA
Centaur Calibrator 30 (2.0 mL/vial) is lyophilized.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ADVIA Centaur Calibrator E
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k954697
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use same For use as a calibration
material for the ADVIA
Centaur® systems:
Form same Lyophilized
Matrix same charcoal stripped
defibrinated
plasma
Intended Use same For in vitro diagnostic
use
Storage (Lyophilized same 2oC to 8oC
and open vial)
Stability same Unopened – until
expiration date
on the vial label
Opened - 14 days
or
On-board - 4 hours
Constituents same Estradiol, Testosterone,
Progesterone and
Cortisol.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Values Estradiol Estradiol, Testosterone,
Progesterone and
Cortisol
Targeted Low = 35 pg/mL Low = 120 pg/mL
Concentration of levels High = 2500 pg/mL High = 1450 pg/mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA Guidance Document: Abbreviated 510(K) submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators (1999).
FDA Guidance Document: Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(K)s (2005).
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			same			For use as a calibration
material for the ADVIA
Centaur® systems:		
Form			same			Lyophilized		
Matrix			same			charcoal stripped
defibrinated
plasma		
Intended Use			same			For in vitro diagnostic
use		
Storage (Lyophilized
and open vial)			same			2oC to 8oC		
Stability			same			Unopened – until
expiration date
on the vial label
Opened - 14 days
or
On-board - 4 hours		
Constituents			same			Estradiol, Testosterone,
Progesterone and
Cortisol.		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte Values			Estradiol			Estradiol, Testosterone,
Progesterone and
Cortisol		
Targeted
Concentration of levels			Low = 35 pg/mL
High = 2500 pg/mL			Low = 120 pg/mL
High = 1450 pg/mL		
								

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment
A set of internal Estradiol standards (primary calibrators), which are not
traceable to an international standard, are value assigned using panel of ID-
GC/MS value assigned real serum samples. Each production lot of Estradiol
calibrators (secondary calibrators) are value assigned against these internal
standards. Primary calibrator values are then calculated from full curve data
reduction for each system independently. The average dose recovered for each
calibrator assigns their value. Quality control is performed by calculating the
recovery of controls using the calibrator values. These controls must fall
within set specifications. The internal standards are stored frozen and checked
periodically against the panel of these serum samples to confirm stability.
Production lots of secondary estradiol calibrators are value assigned against
primary standards using one reagent lot, one run on three different
instruments. Estradiol calibrator values are derived using four-parameter
weighted data algorithm reduction for each run on each instrument. Calibrator
values are then averaged across all systems. Three levels of commercially
available controls and three levels of human serum based Medical Decision
Pools at 60, 450 and 1500 pg/mL are used to validate value assignment.
Stability
Real time, accelerated, open vial and on board stability testing protocols and
acceptance criteria were described and found to be adequate. The current
closed vial stability claim is 16 months at 2o to 8oC; however it will updated
as additional real time stability data becomes available. The reconstituted vials
are stable for fourteen days at 2 to 8oC or for four hours at 25 º C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6