
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k100718
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for ammonia and ethanol
D. Type of Test:
Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific, Limited
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY Class I, reserved 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of five levels protein (bovine) based serum. Each level
contains Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. The five levels demonstrate a linear
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJY			Class I, reserved			862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
relationship to each other for Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. It is intended to
simulate human patient serum samples and to detect systematic analytical
deviations of laboratory testing procedures for Ammonia and Ethanol. This
product may be used as unassayed quality control material for Ammonia and
Ethanol analytes. The product is intended for use with quantitative assays on the
indicated analyzer provided in the labeling. The Audit MicroCV
Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set is “For In Vitro Diagnostic Use Only.”
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set on the Hitachi 911
analyzer.
I. Device Description:
The Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set is a protein (bovine) based,
aqueous calibration verification material containing five levels (Levels A through E)
of ammonia and ethanol. The set is used to confirm proper calibration, linear
operating range, and reportable range of the measured analytes. Level A contains
ammonia and ethanol concentrations near the lower limit level and Level E contains
ammonia and ethanol concentrations near the upper limit level of chemistry
analyzers. Levels B-D are related by linear dilution of Level A and Level E.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
DocumentR Ammonia/Ethanol Calibration Verification Rest Set
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k944338
3. Comparison with predicate
2

--- Page 3 ---
Candidate Device Predicate (k944338)
Indications for Use The Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Same
Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of five levels protein
(bovine) based serum. Each level
contains Ammonia and Ethanol
analytes. The five levels demonstrate a
linear relationship to each other for
Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. It is
intended to simulate human patient
serum samples and to detect systematic
analytical deviations of laboratory
testing procedures for Ammonia and
Ethanol. This product may be used as
unassayed quality control material for
Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. The
product is intended for use with
quantitative assays the indicated
analyzer provided in the labeling. The
Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol
Linearity Set is “For In Vitro Diagnostic
Use Only.”
Analytes Ammonia and Ethanol Same
Matrix Aqueous Same
Number of levels 5 Same
per set
Fill volume 2.0 mL 4.0 mL
Target Ranges Ammonia: 20 to 744 µM Ammonia: 0 to 1000 µM
Ethanol: 1.6 to 704 mg/dL Ethanol: 0 to 400 mg/dL
Storage and 2 days at 2 to 8°C (Opened vial) Same
stability
2 years at 2 to 8°C (Closed vial)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
NCCLS EP6-A: Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures:
A Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Candidate Device	Predicate (k944338)
Indications for Use	The Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol
Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of five levels protein
(bovine) based serum. Each level
contains Ammonia and Ethanol
analytes. The five levels demonstrate a
linear relationship to each other for
Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. It is
intended to simulate human patient
serum samples and to detect systematic
analytical deviations of laboratory
testing procedures for Ammonia and
Ethanol. This product may be used as
unassayed quality control material for
Ammonia and Ethanol analytes. The
product is intended for use with
quantitative assays the indicated
analyzer provided in the labeling. The
Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol
Linearity Set is “For In Vitro Diagnostic
Use Only.”	Same
Analytes	Ammonia and Ethanol	Same
Matrix	Aqueous	Same
Number of levels
per set	5	Same
Fill volume	2.0 mL	4.0 mL
Target Ranges	Ammonia: 20 to 744 µM
Ethanol: 1.6 to 704 mg/dL	Ammonia: 0 to 1000 µM
Ethanol: 0 to 400 mg/dL
Storage and
stability	2 days at 2 to 8°C (Opened vial)
2 years at 2 to 8°C (Closed vial)	Same

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The Audit MicroCV Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set is prepared such that a
linear relationship exists among all five levels (Levels A through E). Level A
has concentration near the lower limit level and Level E has concentrations
near the upper limit level of instruments. Levels B-D are related by linear
dilution of Level A and Level E using dilution schemes based on guidelines
provided by NCCLS EP6-A.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The sponsor claims traceability of the ammonia and ethanol used in this
linearity set to Pointe Scientific Ammonia Standard and Diagnostics Chemical
Limited Ethanol Standard, respectively.
Value Assignment
Expected values for ammonia and ethanol were determined by repeat analyses
on the Hitachi 911 chemistry analyzer with one set of Pointe Scientific
Ammonia Standard and one set of Diagnostics Chemical Limited Ethanol
Standard. Both analytes are cleared for use on the Hitachi 911 chemistry
analyzer (Ammonia (k864706) and Ethanol (k993920)). Ammonia and
Ethanol were measured 10 times and the mean values were used to assign
target ammonia and ethanol concentrations values for each of the five linearity
set levels. Expected values may change depending on lot, instrumentation,
methodology, and assay temperature. Lot-specific expected value ranges are
provided in the package insert. Expected value ranges for each level of the
linearity set are summarized in the table below.
Analyte Units Level A Level B Level C Level D Level E
Ammonia µM 20-30 143-215 260-390 378-568 496-744
Ethanol mg/dL 1.6-2.4 120-180 235-353 354-529 470-704
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Analyte	Units	Level A	Level B	Level C	Level D	Level E
Ammonia	µM	20-30	143-215	260-390	378-568	496-744
Ethanol	mg/dL	1.6-2.4	120-180	235-353	354-529	470-704

--- Page 5 ---
Stability
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found to
be acceptable. Stability characteristics of the Audit MicroCV
Ammonia/Ethanol Linearity Set were determined using an accelerated study
to predict closed vial shelf life for each level of the linearity set. A closed vial
shelf life of 2 years is expected at the recommended storage temperature (2 to
8ºC). Real-time closed vial stability is ongoing. Real-time opened vial
stability studies were also performed. Open vial stability of 2 days was
demonstrated at the recommended storage temperature of 2 to 8ºC. Storage
recommendations are provided in the labeling with additional warnings to
prevent prolonged storage at room temperature and to not freeze linearity
solutions.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6