
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k100817
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Human Hemoglobin (hHb) in human feces
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Princeton BioMeditech Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BioSign® iFOBTest
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.6550, Occult blood test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KHE, Reagent, Occult blood
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
BioSign® iFOBTest is a rapid qualitative test for the immunochemical detection
of fecal occult blood/human hemoglobin (hHb) in human fecal specimens as an
aid in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal disorders such as: diverticulitis, colitis,
polyps, and colorectal cancer. The device is suitable for use in laboratories and
physician’s offices as well as for home use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The test is recommended for use in routine physical examination, new patient
screening at admission and screening and monitoring any suspected colorectal
cancer and/or gastrointestinal bleeding from any source.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription and Over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The BioSign® iFOBTest device consists of a sample well and a testing pad that
employs solid-phase chromatographic immunoassay technology to detect the
presence of FOB in human feces. The sample is collected in a tube with extraction
buffer.
1

--- Page 2 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
QuickVue® iFOB test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k070660
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Qualitative detection of Same
occult blood in feces
Sample Type Feces Same
Assay Lateral flow Same
chromatographic
immunoassay
Detection Level 50 ng/mL hHb in fecal Same
extraction buffer
Users Healthcare professionals Healthcare professional use
and lay persons (OTC) and lay persons (OTC)
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Format Cassette only Dip Strip and Cassette
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
L. Test Principle:
The BioSign® iFOBTest is a rapid qualitative test detecting the presence of human
hemoglobin (hHb) in a fecal sample at 50 ng/mL and above. The tube is shaken to
mix the fecal sample in the extraction buffer. Then, 3 drops (about 110 μL) of the
mixed sample solution is added onto the sample well of the test device. After the
sample has been dispensed into the sample well, the extracted sample migrates into
the pad containing detector antibody conjugated dye label. The hHb in the sample
will bind to the detector antibody and migrate onto the membrane where the test and
control lines are located. On the membrane, immobilized capture antibodies form the
invisible Test line. When the complex of hHb and detector antibodies reaches the
Test line, the complex binds to the capture antibodies to form a visible reddish Test
line indicative of a positive result; i.e., hHb is present. When no hHb is present in the
sample, no reddish Test line forms. In addition to the Test line, a Control line on the
membrane provides an internal quality control of the test device. Anti-species
specific IgG antibodies are immobilized at the Control line. These antibodies will
capture any unreacted/excess antibody-gold conjugates, forming a distinct Control
line. The Control line serves to demonstrate that: lyophilized antibodies in the dye
pad have been hydrated; sufficient sample has been applied to allow for migration to
the Test line and beyond; chemicals are working properly; and the proper procedure
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Qualitative detection of
occult blood in feces			Same		
Sample Type			Feces			Same		
Assay			Lateral flow
chromatographic
immunoassay			Same		
Detection Level			50 ng/mL hHb in fecal
extraction buffer			Same		
Users			Healthcare professionals
and lay persons (OTC)			Healthcare professional use
and lay persons (OTC)		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Format			Cassette only			Dip Strip and Cassette		

--- Page 3 ---
was followed. If a Control line does not appear within the designated incubation
time, the test result is invalid and the test should be repeated using a new test device.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Human stool extraction samples were spiked with hHb at the following
concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng/ml. Eight samples were tested at
each concentration with two lots of the BioSign iFOB test. Samples with
concentrations below 50 ng/ml hHb tested negative with the candidate device
while samples at and above 50 ng/ml tested positive, as expected.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Internal Control: Procedural controls are included in the test device. A
reddish line appearing the control region in considered as internal procedural
control. It confirms sufficient specimen volume, adequate membrane wicking
and correct procedural technique.
External Control: Controls are not provided with this kit. It is recommended
that positive and negative controls be performed to verify proper test
performance.
d. Detection limit:
The minimal detection limit is 50 ng/mL of hHb in buffer or 50µg hHb/g in
stool.
e. Analytical specificity:
Positive and negative stool samples were spiked with the following
substances: beet, chicken, fish (meat extract), horse, goat, pig, rabbit, and
sheep hemoglobin, horseradish peroxidase, red radish, raw turnip, cauliflower,
broccoli, parsnip, cantaloupe, Vitamin C and iron. Addition of these
substances had no effect on the test results.
g. Assay cut-off:
The assay cut-off is 50 ng/mL of hHb in buffer or 50µg hHb/g in stool.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The BioSign iFOBTest was evaluated in comparison with a commercially
available predicate device in a reference laboratory study. Five (5) different
sample concentrations, 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng hHb/mL, were tested
using the BioSign iFOBTest device and the predicate device using 8 replicates
for each concentration, for a total of 40 samples. At each concentration, all
results with the BioSign iFOBTest agreed 100% with expected results and the
results of the predicate.
The BioSign® iFOBTest was also evaluated in a study at three physicians’
office laboratory (POL) sites. Five (5) different concentrations, 0, 37.5, 50,
62.5, and 500 ng hHb/mL, were prepared by spiking hHb into the extraction
buffer. Each concentration was divided into 60 vials for each test. These
vials were labeled for blind study. Each site tested a total of 100 tests with
blinded samples of 5 concentrations, 20 samples per concentration, for a total
3

--- Page 4 ---
of 300 samples. The results obtained from the three POL sites agreed 99.7%
with the expected results.
Therefore, the overall agreement of the BioSign® iFOBTest with the expected
results is 99.7%.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Results are negative when <50 ng/mL of hHb in buffer and positive when ≥ 50 ng/mL
of hHb in buffer.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
4