
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k101633
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for Blood Glucose and β-Ketone Monitoring Systems
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Nova Biomedical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-Ketone Control Solutions
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY Class I, 21 CFR 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry (75)
reserved Quality Control Material
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indication for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-Ketone Control Solutions are intended for use with
the Nova Max Family of Monitors (Nova Max, Nova Max Plus, and Nova Max Link),
BD Logic and Paradigm Link Monitors, Nova Max Glucose Test Strips, and Nova Max
Plus Ketone Test Strips as a quality control check to verify the accuracy of blood Glucose
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification				Regulation Section				Panel		
JJY			Class I,
reserved				21 CFR 862.1660
Quality Control Material				Clinical Chemistry (75)			

--- Page 2 ---
and β-Ketone test results.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use only
For over the counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Nova Max Family of Monitors (Nova Max, Nova Max Plus, and Nova Max Link), BD
Logic and Paradigm Link Monitors, Nova Max Glucose Test Strips, and Nova Max Plus
Ketone Test Strips.
I. Device Description:
The control solutions are aqueous assayed solutions containing Glucose and β-Ketone. There
are two levels of controls (Level Mid and Level High).
The non-reactive formulation ingredients include: preservative, dye, and viscosity-adjusting
agent.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Nova Max Plus Blood Glucose Control Solutions and Nova Max Plus Ketone Control
Solutions
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k091547
3. Comparison with predicate:
Items Nova Max Plus Glucose and β- Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-Ketone
Ketone Control Solutions Control Solutions
(Candidate Device) (Predicate Device k091547)
Intended Use The Nova Max Plus Glucose and β- Same
Ketone Control Solutions are intended
for use with the Nova Max Family of
Monitors (Nova Max, Nova Max Plus,
and Nova Max Link), BD Logic and
BD Paradigm Link Monitors, Nova
Max Glucose Test Strips, and Nova
Max Plus Ketone Test Strips as a
quality control check to verify the
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Items		Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-			Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-Ketone	
		Ketone Control Solutions			Control Solutions	
		(Candidate Device)			(Predicate Device k091547)	
Intended Use	The Nova Max Plus Glucose and β-
Ketone Control Solutions are intended
for use with the Nova Max Family of
Monitors (Nova Max, Nova Max Plus,
and Nova Max Link), BD Logic and
BD Paradigm Link Monitors, Nova
Max Glucose Test Strips, and Nova
Max Plus Ketone Test Strips as a
quality control check to verify the			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
accuracy of blood Glucose and β-
Ketone test results.
Analyte(s ) Glucose and β-Ketone Same
Levels of 2 3
Controls
Glucose: Glucose:
106 mg/dL (Level Mid) 62 mg/dL (Level Low )
Target 285 mg/dL (Level High) 121 mg/dL (Level Normal)
Concentration 320 mg/dL (Level High)
β-Ketone: β-Ketone:
1.1 mM (Level Mid) 1.2 mM (Level 1)
2.6 mM (Level High) 2.9 mM (Level 2)
5.2 mM (Level 3)
Matrix Preservative, dye, and viscosity- Same
adjusting agent
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
• Glucose controls are traceable to NIST (National Institute of Standards and
Technology) D-Glucose SRM 917B.
• Nova Max Plus Ketone controls are traceable to an in house standard prepared
gravimetrically from commercially available materials. No Standard Reference
Material (SRM) is currently available for B-Hydroxybutyrate.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	accuracy of blood Glucose and β-
Ketone test results.	
Analyte(s )	Glucose and β-Ketone	Same
Levels of
Controls	2	3
Target
Concentration	Glucose:
106 mg/dL (Level Mid)
285 mg/dL (Level High)	Glucose:
62 mg/dL (Level Low )
121 mg/dL (Level Normal)
320 mg/dL (Level High)
	β-Ketone:
1.1 mM (Level Mid)
2.6 mM (Level High)	β-Ketone:
1.2 mM (Level 1)
2.9 mM (Level 2)
5.2 mM (Level 3)
Matrix	Preservative, dye, and viscosity-
adjusting agent	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Value Assignment:
• Glucose:
The target values are 106 mg/dL (Level Mid) and 285 mg/dL (Level High). The lot
specific range was assigned as mean ± 17%. The Mean and SD was calculated from
150 test results (2 tests per strip lot per monitor per day, using 3 strip lots and 5
monitors over 5 days of testing).
• Ketone:
The target values are 1.1 mM (Level Mid) and 2.6 mM (Level High). The lot specific
range was assigned as mean ± 20% for the high control, and mean ± 0.2 mM for the
mid control. The Mean and SD was calculated from 150 test results (2 tests per strip
lot per monitor per day, using 3 strip lots and 5 monitors over 5 days of testing).
Stability:
• Shelf life stability:
Real-time testing at room temperature (25oC) and accelerated testing at 40oC and
50oC were conducted. The stability study protocol and the acceptance criteria have
been reviewed and found to be acceptable. The predicted shelf-life, based on results
of accelerated testing, is 2.5 years at room temperature (25oC). Real-time stability
testing is on-going to support the claimed shelf life of 24 months at room temperature
(25oC).
• Open-Vial Stability:
The stability study protocol to determine open-vial stability of the controls and the
acceptance criteria have been reviewed and found to be acceptable. The Nova Max
Plus Glucose and β-Ketone Control Solutions are stable after opening for at least 90
days at room temperature (25oC).
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values are provided on the vial labels.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5