
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K101879_______________
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Xpert® MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay, K082140 (09/29/2009)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification.
3. The modification to this device consist of the revision of the product labeling as a corrective action to
Cepheid MRSA/SA Blood Culture Class I Recall (Z-1898-2010). This modification has not had any
effect or caused any changes to the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of this
device.
a) There were no changes made to the device (composition or technological characteristics).
b) The product labeling has been revised to include the following modifications:
i) Intended Use Section:
(a) The indication/intended use statement remains the same. An additional sentence was added to
the Indication/intended use statement for clarification and language consistency purposes.
(b) The addition of a warning box with the following statement under the intended use statement.
When a MRSA negative/SA positive result is obtained, the results should be interpreted
as MRSA indeterminate/ Staphylococcus aureus positive, antimicrobial susceptibility
testing pending. Further testing should be performed using an FDA-cleared, phenotypic
antimicrobial susceptibility testing method on isolated colonies recovered from the blood
culture bottle. MRSA positive/SA positive results can still be reported as such.
ii) Interpretation of Results section:
(a) The addition of new instruction for interpretation of MRSA negative/SA positive results.
• The results should be interpreted as MRSA indeterminate/ Staphylococcus aureus
positive, antimicrobial susceptibility testing pending. Further testing should be
performed using an FDA-cleared, phenotypic antimicrobial susceptibility testing
method on isolated colonies recovered from the blood culture bottle.
iii) Limitation section:
(a) The addition of the following statements:
• The Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay may generate false negative MRSA results
when testing borderline oxacillin resistant S. aureus (BORSA). The mechanism of oxacillin
resistance in BORSA strains is due to an increased production of B-lactamases, not the
mecA gene. BORSA with oxacillin MICs of 4-8 µg/mL are considered borderline resistant
but, would be reported as MRSA negative by the Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay.
BORSA strains are rare in the United States.
• The Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay may generate false negative MRSA results
when testing modified S. aureus (MOD-SA). The mechanism of oxacillin resistance in

--- Page 2 ---
2- K101879
MOD-SA strains is due to changes in affinity of penicillin binding proteins for oxacillin, not
the mecA gene. MOD-SA with oxacillin MICs of 4-8 µg/mL are considered borderline
resistant but, would be reported as MRSA negative by the Xpert MRSA/SA Blood culture
Assay. MOD-SA strains are rare in the United States.
• As with all PCR based in vitro diagnostic tests, extremely low levels of target below the
LoD of the assay may be detected, but results may not be reproducible.
• Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay results may sometimes be “INVALID” due to a failed
SPC control, “ERROR” or “NO RESULT”, and require retesting that can lead to a delay in
obtaining final results.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences): The package insert was revised to add a
clarification statement and a black warning box in the Intended Use section, new instruction for
interpretation of the MRSA negative/SA positive results in the Interpretation of Results section and
additional statements in the Limitation section.
Similarities and Differences
Predicate Device
Item Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture
K082140 K101879
Intended Use The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood
Culture Assay performed on the Culture Assay performed on the
GeneXpert® Dx System™ is a qualitative GeneXpert® Dx System™ is a qualitative
in vitro diagnostic test intended for the in vitro diagnostic test intended for the
detection of Staphylococcus aureus (SA) detection of Staphylococcus aureus (SA)
and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) DNA directly from patient aureus (MRSA) DNA directly from patient
positive blood cultures. The assay utilizes positive blood cultures. The assay
automated real-time polymerase chain utilizes automated real-time polymerase
reaction (PCR) for the amplification of chain reaction (PCR) for the amplification
MRSA/SA specific DNA targets and of MRSA/SA specific DNA targets and
fluorogenic target-specific hybridization fluorogenic target-specific hybridization
probes for the real-time detection of the probes for the real-time detection of the
amplified DNA. The assay is performed amplified DNA. The assay is performed
directly on positive blood culture directly on positive blood culture
specimens using BD BACTEC™ Plus specimens using BD BACTEC™ Plus
Aerobic/F blood culture bottles that are Aerobic/F blood culture bottles that are
determined as Gram Positive Cocci in determined as Gram Positive Cocci in
Clusters (GPCC) or as Gram Positive Clusters (GPCC) or as Gram Positive
Cocci in singles (GPC) by Gram stain. Cocci in singles (GPC) by Gram stain.
The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood The Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture
Culture Assay is not intended to monitor Assay is indicated for use in conjunction
treatment for MRSA/SA infections. with other laboratory tests, such as
Subculturing of positive blood cultures is culture, and clinical data available to the
necessary to recover organisms for clinician as an aid in the detection of
susceptibility testing or for MRSA/SA from patient positive blood
epidemiological typing. cultures. Subculturing of positive blood
cultures is necessary to recover
organisms for susceptibility testing or for
epidemiological typing. The Cepheid
Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay
is not intended to monitor treatment for
MRSA/SA infections.
When a MRSA negative/SA positive
result is obtained, the results should be
interpreted as MRSA indeterminate/
Staphylococcus aureus positive,

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Similarities and Differences							
				Predicate			Device	
Item	Item			Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture			Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture	
				K082140			K101879	
Intended Use			The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood
Culture Assay performed on the
GeneXpert® Dx System™ is a qualitative
in vitro diagnostic test intended for the
detection of Staphylococcus aureus (SA)
and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) DNA directly from patient
positive blood cultures. The assay utilizes
automated real-time polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) for the amplification of
MRSA/SA specific DNA targets and
fluorogenic target-specific hybridization
probes for the real-time detection of the
amplified DNA. The assay is performed
directly on positive blood culture
specimens using BD BACTEC™ Plus
Aerobic/F blood culture bottles that are
determined as Gram Positive Cocci in
Clusters (GPCC) or as Gram Positive
Cocci in singles (GPC) by Gram stain.
The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood
Culture Assay is not intended to monitor
treatment for MRSA/SA infections.
Subculturing of positive blood cultures is
necessary to recover organisms for
susceptibility testing or for
epidemiological typing.			The Cepheid Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood
Culture Assay performed on the
GeneXpert® Dx System™ is a qualitative
in vitro diagnostic test intended for the
detection of Staphylococcus aureus (SA)
and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) DNA directly from patient
positive blood cultures. The assay
utilizes automated real-time polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) for the amplification
of MRSA/SA specific DNA targets and
fluorogenic target-specific hybridization
probes for the real-time detection of the
amplified DNA. The assay is performed
directly on positive blood culture
specimens using BD BACTEC™ Plus
Aerobic/F blood culture bottles that are
determined as Gram Positive Cocci in
Clusters (GPCC) or as Gram Positive
Cocci in singles (GPC) by Gram stain.
The Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture
Assay is indicated for use in conjunction
with other laboratory tests, such as
culture, and clinical data available to the
clinician as an aid in the detection of
MRSA/SA from patient positive blood
cultures. Subculturing of positive blood
cultures is necessary to recover
organisms for susceptibility testing or for
epidemiological typing. The Cepheid
Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay
is not intended to monitor treatment for
MRSA/SA infections.		
						When a MRSA negative/SA positive
result is obtained, the results should be
interpreted as MRSA indeterminate/
Staphylococcus aureus positive,		

--- Page 3 ---
3- K101879
Similarities and Differences
Predicate Device
Item Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture
K082140 K101879
antimicrobial susceptibility testing
pending. Further testing should be
performed using an FDA-cleared,
phenotypic antimicrobial susceptibility
testing method on isolated colonies
recovered from the blood culture
bottle. MRSA positive/SA positive
results can still be reported as such.
Indication for Use Identification of MRSA and SA
colonization Same
Specimen Type Positive Blood Culture specimens using
BD BACTEC™ Plus Aerobic/F blood Same
culture bottles that are determined as
Gram Positive Cocci in Clusters (GPCC)
or Gram Positive Cocci in single (GPC),
by Gram stain.
Technological Principles Fully-automated nucleic acid amplification
(DNA); real-time PCR Same
DNA Target Sequence Sequence incorporating the insertion site
(attBsse) of Staphylococcal mec Same
(SCCmec) for detection of MRSA.
Sequence specific to methicillin/Oxacillin
resistance (mecA gene)
Labeling Package Insert Same, with clarifications and addition of
black box statement, limitations and
instruction for interpretation of MRSA
negative/SA positive results.
Users Operators with no clinical lab experience
to experienced clinical laboratory Same
technologists.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis. – Risks were identified during the
assessment of the product recall and mitigated by adding a recommendation to the product
labeling.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied. - The verification and/or
validation activities were conducted under the firm’s Design Control for Design Changes and
Change Control procedures in accordance with 21 CFR Part 820.30.
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
The signed statement for declaration of conformity with design controls was submitted.

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Similarities and Differences							
				Predicate			Device	
Item	Item			Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture			Xpert MRSA/SA Blood Culture	
				K082140			K101879	
						antimicrobial susceptibility testing
pending. Further testing should be
performed using an FDA-cleared,
phenotypic antimicrobial susceptibility
testing method on isolated colonies
recovered from the blood culture
bottle. MRSA positive/SA positive
results can still be reported as such.		
								
Indication for Use			Identification of MRSA and SA
colonization			Same		
Specimen Type			Positive Blood Culture specimens using
BD BACTEC™ Plus Aerobic/F blood
culture bottles that are determined as
Gram Positive Cocci in Clusters (GPCC)
or Gram Positive Cocci in single (GPC),
by Gram stain.			Same		
Technological Principles			Fully-automated nucleic acid amplification
(DNA); real-time PCR			Same		
DNA Target Sequence			Sequence incorporating the insertion site
(attBsse) of Staphylococcal mec
(SCCmec) for detection of MRSA.
Sequence specific to methicillin/Oxacillin
resistance (mecA gene)			Same		
Labeling			Package Insert			Same, with clarifications and addition of
black box statement, limitations and
instruction for interpretation of MRSA
negative/SA positive results.		
Users			Operators with no clinical lab experience
to experienced clinical laboratory
technologists.			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
4- K101879
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
A signed Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) summary and Indications for Use Enclosure
were provided.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information between
the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has
not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The New
510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially
equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.