
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k101831
B. Purpose for Submission:
510(k) clearance for a positive and negative control for a previously cleared device
C. Measurand:
Human Hemoglobin (hHb) in human feces
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Bionostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Enterix® Insure® FIT™ FOBT Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.6550, Occult blood test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
OSL, Control, fecal occult blood
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Enterix InSure FIT FOBT Controls are for in vitro diagnostic use only and
include a positive control containing stabilized human hemoglobin and a negative
control containing a buffer. This is an assayed positive and negative control and
intended for the qualitative test determinations of Enterix InSure FIT product.
Enterix InSure FIT FOBT Controls are for exclusive use with Enterix InSure FIT
product. These controls can be used to independently verify the functionality and
performance of the InSure FIT test by laboratories and other professional medical
institutions as part of a comprehensive quality assurance program.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
Enterix Insure FIT FOBT Control Solution is a two-level (positive & negative),
aqueous control solution. The positive control solution contains 34.2 µg of human
hemoglobin per gram of solution and the negative control contains only buffer
solution. It is used to verify the proper functioning of the analytical phase of the
Insure FIT Fecal Occult Blood Test Kit.
1

--- Page 2 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
a. Clearview Ultra FOB Control Solutions
b. Hemoccult ICT FOB Control Solutions
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
a. k041297
b. k080812
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Enterix InSure FIT FOBT Controls are Clearview Ultra FOB control
for in vitro diagnostic use only and solutions (k041297): intended to
include a positive control containing monitor the analytical
stabilized human hemoglobin and a performance of the Clearview
negative control containing a buffer. Ultra FOB Test device.
This is an assayed positive and
Hemoccult ICT FOB Control
negative control and intended for the
Solutions (k080812): intended to
qualitative test determinations of
monitor the analytical
Enterix InSure FIT product. Enterix
performance of the Hemoccult
InSure FIT FOBT Controls are for
ICT FOB test device.
exclusive use with Enterix InSure FIT
product. These controls can be used to
independently verify the functionality
and performance of the InSure FIT test
by laboratories and other professional
medical institutions as part of a
comprehensive quality assurance
program.
Final Product Form Two levels: Positive and negative Same
controls.
Analyte Human Hemoglobin Same
Matrix Aqueous Same
Users Healthcare professionals Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Net fill amount/vial 1.5ml Clearview Ultra FOB control
of control solution solutions (k041297) - 1.0 mL
Hemoccult ICT FOB Control
Solutions (k080812) - 0.8 mL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The Enterix Insure FIT FOBT Control solutions are assayed and intended for
qualitative test determinations. It is prepared at two concentrations of human
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Enterix InSure FIT FOBT Controls are
for in vitro diagnostic use only and
include a positive control containing
stabilized human hemoglobin and a
negative control containing a buffer.
This is an assayed positive and
negative control and intended for the
qualitative test determinations of
Enterix InSure FIT product. Enterix
InSure FIT FOBT Controls are for
exclusive use with Enterix InSure FIT
product. These controls can be used to
independently verify the functionality
and performance of the InSure FIT test
by laboratories and other professional
medical institutions as part of a
comprehensive quality assurance
program.			Clearview Ultra FOB control
solutions (k041297): intended to
monitor the analytical
performance of the Clearview
Ultra FOB Test device.
Hemoccult ICT FOB Control
Solutions (k080812): intended to
monitor the analytical
performance of the Hemoccult
ICT FOB test device.		
Final Product Form			Two levels: Positive and negative
controls.			Same		
Analyte			Human Hemoglobin			Same		
Matrix			Aqueous			Same		
Users			Healthcare professionals			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Net fill amount/vial
of control solution			1.5ml			Clearview Ultra FOB control
solutions (k041297) - 1.0 mL
Hemoccult ICT FOB Control
Solutions (k080812) - 0.8 mL		

--- Page 3 ---
hemoglobin and is used to verify the performance of the Enterix Insure FIT FOB test
device. This test is based on the detection of human hemoglobin (hHb) in stool
specimens. The negative control solution produces one distinct color band in the
control area and the positive control solution produces two color bands in the control
and the test area of the lateral flow strips of the test device.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Ten consecutive runs on three lots of each control level- negative and positive
were performed. All ten runs of the negative control solution on each of the
three lots tested negative while the control area tested positive. Similarly all
ten runs of the positive control solution on each of the three lots tested
positive in the test area and the control area. The results were as expected.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: Positive control solutions were tested on a
spectrophotometer in parallel to three replicates per sample of solutions with
hemoglobin concentrations established by dilution (0, 10, 25, 40, 50 µg/g).
The hemoglobin concentration of the positive solution was determined based
on the equation of the line (slope and intercept) established by this dilution.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Positive and negative controls from 10 replicates from three lots were tested
on two different predicates. For both the negative and positive control
solutions, the results agreed 100% with the expected results and the results of
the predicates.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4