
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K101234
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for a new test system for an
immunohistochemical stain for Helicobacter pylori.
C. Measurand:
Whole Organism: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)
D. Type of Test:
Immunohistochemical (IHC) monoclonal antibody stain test for the qualitative detection of
Helicobacter pylori
E. Applicant:
Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody; IHC
laboratory test for detection of Helicobacter pylori
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
866.3110- Campylobacter fetus serological reagents
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
OWF- Immunohistochemical assay, Helicobacter pylori
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83- Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody (Ventana
anti-H. pylori (SP48)) is designed to qualitatively detect the presence of Helicobacter
pylori in formalin fixed, paraffin embedded gastric biopsy tissue via light microscopy.
Immunohistochemical staining with this antibody product may aid in the diagnosis of
Helicobacter pylori infection. This product should be interpreted by a qualified
pathologist in conjunction with histological examination, relevant clinical information
and proper controls.
This antibody is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody (Ventana
anti-H. pylori (SP48)) is designed to qualitatively detect the presence of Helicobacter
pylori in formalin fixed, paraffin embedded gastric biopsy tissue via light microscopy.
Immunohistochemical staining with this antibody product may aid in the diagnosis of
Helicobacter pylori infection. This product should be interpreted by a qualified
pathologist in conjunction with histological examination, relevant clinical information
and proper controls.
This antibody is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
To be used on the Benchmark series instruments: BenchMark XT and BenchMark Ultra
auto slide stainer.
4. Special instrument requirements:
To be used on the Benchmark series instruments: BenchMark XT version NexES 10.6
and BenchMark Ultra version VSS 11.9
I. Device Description:
The Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay
consists of a recombinant rabbit monoclonal primary antibody directed against whole
2

--- Page 3 ---
H. pylori organisms. The immunogen used to produce this antibody was purified H. pylori
organism lysate. The demonstration of antigens in tissue and cells by immunostaining is a
process involving first the binding of an antibody to an antigen of interest and second,
visualization of the bound primary antibody by a secondary (linker) antibody either coupled
with an enzyme or followed by an enzyme complex. Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori
(SP48) is a rabbit monoclonal primary antibody which specifically binds to the H. pylori
organism in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) gastric biopsy samples. The detection
of H. pylori by immunohistochemistry allows the specific location and distinctive helical
morphology to be observed.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Pylo-Plus
2. Predicate 510(k) number:
K052708
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
K052708 (Pylo-Plus)
Intended Use For the presumptive
Aids in the diagnosis of determination of Helicobacter
Helicobacter pylori infection. pylori in symptomatic adult
patients.
Specimen Matrix Formalin fixed, paraffin Gastric mucosal biopsy
embedded gastric specimens
biopsy tissue specimens
Method Qualitative Qualitative
Differences
Item Device Predicate
K052708 (Pylo-Plus)
Intended Use Detects the presence of Detects of the urease enzyme in
Helicobacter pylori in formalin gastric mucosal biopsy
fixed, paraffin embedded gastric specimens.
biopsy tissue via light
microscopy.
Type of Assay IHC with secondary detection Serological Reagent
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item	Device		Predicate	
			K052708 (Pylo-Plus)	
Intended Use	Aids in the diagnosis of
Helicobacter pylori infection.	For the presumptive
determination of Helicobacter
pylori in symptomatic adult
patients.		
Specimen Matrix	Formalin fixed, paraffin
embedded gastric
biopsy tissue specimens	Gastric mucosal biopsy
specimens		
Method	Qualitative	Qualitative		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Item	Device		Predicate	
			K052708 (Pylo-Plus)	
Intended Use	Detects the presence of
Helicobacter pylori in formalin
fixed, paraffin embedded gastric
biopsy tissue via light
microscopy.	Detects of the urease enzyme in
gastric mucosal biopsy
specimens.		
Type of Assay	IHC with secondary detection	Serological Reagent		

--- Page 4 ---
Instrumentation Automated Manual
Target Whole organism Urease
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• Review Criteria for Assessment of Laboratory Tests for the Detection of Antibodies
to Helicobacter pylori; Guidance issued September 17, 1992
• Establishing the Performance Characteristics of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the
Detection of Helicobacter pylori; Draft Guidance issued September 23, 2010
• Guidance for Submission of Immunohistochemistry Applications to FDA; June 3,
1998
• Statistical Guidance on Reporting Results from Studies Evaluating Diagnostic Tests;
Guidance issued March 13, 2007
• Guidance on Informed Consent for In Vitro Diagnostic Device Studies Using
Leftover Human Specimens that are Not Individually Identifiable; Guidance issued
April 25, 2006
• Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices; Guidance issued May 11, 2005
• EN ISO14981:2007- Medical Device- Application of Risk Management to Medical
Devices.
• EN 13640:2002 Stability of Testing of In Vitro Diagnostics Reagents
• E9 Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials, Guidance issued September 1998
• CEN – European Committee for Standardization
L. Test Principle:
Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) is a rabbit monoclonal antibody which binds to
the Helicobacter pylori organism in paraffin-embedded tissue sections. The specific
antibody can be localized by either a biotin-conjugated secondary antibody formulation
that recognizes rabbit immunoglobulins followed by the addition of a streptavidin-
horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugate (iVIEW DAB Detection Kit) or a secondary
antibody-HRP conjugate (ultraView Universal DAB Detection Kit). The specific
antibody-enzyme complex is then visualized with a precipitating enzyme reaction
product. Each step is incubated for a precise time and temperature. At the end of each
incubation step, the Ventana automated slide stainer washes the sections to stop the
reaction and to remove unbound material that would hinder the desired reaction in
subsequent steps. It also applies Liquid Coverslip, which minimizes evaporation of the
aqueous reagents from the specimen slide.
Clinical cases should be evaluated within the context of the performance of appropriate
controls. Ventana recommends the inclusion of a positive tissue control fixed and
processed in the same manner as the patient specimen (for example, an H .pylori-infected
stomach tissue). In addition to staining with Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48), a
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Instrumentation	Automated	Manual
Target	Whole organism	Urease

--- Page 5 ---
second slide should be stained with Ventana CONFIRM Negative Control Rabbit Ig. For
the test to be considered valid, the positive control tissue should exhibit staining of H.
pylori organisms. These components should be negative when stained with CONFIRM
Negative Control Rabbit Ig. In addition, it is recommended that a negative tissue control
slide (for example, an H. pylori-negative stomach tissue) be included for every batch of
samples processed and run on the Ventana automated slide stainer. This negative tissue
control should be stained with Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) to ensure that the
antigen enhancement and other pretreatment procedures did not create false positive
staining.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A precision study was conducted at one site to measure inter-lots (3 samples tested),
inter-runs (234 samples tested), inter-platforms; BenchMark XT (90 samples tested)
and BenchMark ULTRA (45 samples tested) instruments. All samples tested scored
equivalency. Additionally, inter-platform precision was determined by staining 1
multi-tissue block (3 tissues per block) across 5 slides on 3 BenchMark XT
instruments and 3 BenchMark ULTRA instruments. 90 out of 90 samples tested
scored equivalently.
A reproducibility study was conducted to measure inter-site, inter-reader, inter-
platform, and inter-day variability at three sites, three non-consecutive days, two
platforms (BenchMark XT and BenchMark ULTRA) and three readers per site. To
measure variability, 14 clinical specimens that included high positives, low positives,
and negative cases were assessed. At each site, the sponsor measured a total of 126
replicates for a grand total of 369. Across all sites, the sponsor had 100% agreement
across all 14 specimens. The morphology and background acceptance rates were also
100% on both the BenchMark ULTRA and the BenchMark XT instruments.
The results obtained from precision and reproducibility studies are acceptable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
5

--- Page 6 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
A cross reactivity study was performed to determine if samples from various disease
states and other potentially cross-reactivity factors interfere with test results when
tested with the Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody assay. Cross-reactivity was determined for the Ventana anti-H. pylori
(SP48) to microorganisms by testing formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples of
aspergillus, Pneumocystis carinii, spirochetes, Cryptococcus neoformans, and
mycobacterium. Testing was also completed on cytospins of Campylobacter jejuni
and Escherichia coli. Negative staining was obtained on aspergillus, Pneumocystis
carinii, spirochetes, Cryptococcus neoformans, mycobacterium, and Escherichia coli.
The results obtained from the cross reactive study are acceptable.
A tissue specificity study for the Ventana anti-Helicobacter pylori (SP48) Rabbit
Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay was performed by testing formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded normal and neoplastic tissues. The following results were
obtained.
For normal tissues, results are as follows: (0/3) cerebrum, (0/3) cerebellum, (0/3)
adrenal gland, (0/3) ovary, (0/3) pancreas, (0/3) parathyroid gland, (0/3) hypophysis,
(0/3) testis, (0/3) thyroid gland, (0/3) breast, (0/3) spleen, (0/3) tonsil, (0/3) thymus,
(0/3) bone marrow, (0/3) lung, (0/3) heart, (0/3) esophagus, (0/3) gastric fundus, (0/3)
small intestine, (0/3) colon, (0/3) liver, (0/3) salivary gland, (0/3) kidney, (0/3)
prostate, (0/3) endometrium, (0/3) cervix, (0/3) skeletal muscle, (0/3) skin, (0/3)
nerve, (0/3) mesothelium and lung.
For neoplastic tissues, results are as follows: (0/1) glioblastoma, (0/1) atypical
meningioma, (0/1) malignant ependymoma, (0/1) malignant oligodendroglioma, (0/1)
ovarian serous papillary adenocarcinoma, (0/1) ovarian mucinous papillary
adenocarcinoma, (0/1) islet cell carcinoma, (0/1) pancreatic adenocarcinoma, (0/1)
seminoma, (0/1) embryonal carcinoma, (0/1) medullary carcinoma, (0/1) papillary
carcinoma, (0/1) intraductal carcinoma, (0/1) breast lobular carcinoma in situ, (0/1)
invasive ductal carcinoma, (0/1) diffuse B cell lymphoma, (0/1) small cell
undifferentiated carcinoma, (0/1) lung squamous cell carcinoma with necrosis, (0/1)
lung adenocarcinoma, (0/1) esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, (0/1) esophageal
adenocarcinoma, (0/1) mucinous adenocarcinoma, (0/1) small intestine
adenocarcinoma , (0/1) small intestine intermediate grade interstitialoma , (0/1) colon
adenocarcinoma (0/1) colon intermediate grade interstitialoma, (0/1) rectum
adenocarcinoma, (0/1) rectum intermediate grade interstitialoma, (0/1) hepatocellular
carcinoma, (0/1) hepatoblastoma, (0/1) clear cell carcinoma, (0/1) prostate
adenocarcinoma, (0/1) transitional cell carcinoma, (0/1) leiomyoma, (0/1)
endometrial adenocarcinoma, (0/1) endometrial clear cell carcinoma, (0/1) uterine
cervix squamous cell carcinoma, (0/1) embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, (0/1)
malignant melanoma, (0/1) basal cell carcinoma, (0/1) squamous cell carcinoma,
6

--- Page 7 ---
(0/1) neurofibroma, (0/1) neuroblastoma, (0/1) epithelial malignant mesothelioma,
(0/3) diffuse malignant lymphoma, (0/1) Hodgkin’s lymphoma, (0/1) transitional cell
carcinoma with squamous metaplasia, (0/2) leiomyosarcoma, (0/1) osteosarcoma,
(0/1) spindle cell rhabdomyosarcoma. The results obtained from the tissue specificity
study appear to be acceptable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
A retrospective, method comparison study was conducted at three independent
clinical sites to demonstrate the percent positive and negative agreement rates for the
comparison of VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody with Ventana Giemsa Staining Kit in determining the presence of H. pylori.
The three sites targeted acquisition of a total of 300 H. pylori samples, actually
stained 299 cases, and obtained complete data on 294. Samples were excluded for
H&E non-acceptability (1), Giemsa slide tissue morphology non-acceptability (2),
Giemsa slide tissue morphology and VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48) slide tissue
morphology non-acceptability (3), and VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48) negative
control stain not negative.
Each site prepared seven slides per case by freshly cutting serial sections of tissue of
3 micron thickness from archived formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue blocks
and mounting sections in the same direction on each slide. Samples for the study were
identified at the clinical study sites via pre-screening based on consecutive cases
where H. pylori was detected or not detected based on patient medical records of the
results from evaluation of gastric biopsies. Investigators at each site for the method
comparison analysis of the investigational device and the comparator device were
blinded to H. pylori status of each specimen and slides were read in the order in
which they were provided. The ages of the formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue
blocks that were included in the clinical study ranged from 11 to 666 days.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Pooled data from all sites demonstrated a slide staining acceptability rate for slide
background in 298/299 human gastric biopsy tissue samples stained with VENTANA
anti-H. pylori (SP48). Pooled data from all sites demonstrated a slide staining
acceptability rate for slide tissue morphology in 298/299 human gastric biopsy tissue
samples stained with VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48).
Table 1. Giemsa Stain versus SP48 Stain
Giemsa Stain
Not Not
Detected
Detected Available
Detected 136 2 1
Not
Ventana anti-H. 3 153 1
Detected
pylori (SP48)
Not
1 1 1
Available
Positive Percent Agreement = 97.8% (93.8% - 99.3%)
Negative Percent Agreement = 98.7% (95.4% - 99.6%)
Pooled data from all sites demonstrated positive agreement in 136/139 human gastric
biopsy tissue samples and negative agreement in 153/155 human gastric biopsy tissue
samples between VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48) and Ventana Giemsa Staining
Kit. These numbers translate into a percent positive agreement of 97.8%, with a 95%
score confidence interval of (93.8- 99.3); the percent negative agreement was 98.7%,
with a 95% confidence interval of (95.4- 99.6).
Pooled data from all sites demonstrated positive agreement in 138/151 human gastric
biopsy tissue samples, and positive and negative agreement in 144/145 human gastric
biopsy tissue samples between VENTANA anti-H. pylori (SP48) and the H. pylori
diagnosis obtained from the enrollment pathology reports. These numbers translate
into a percent positive agreement of 91.3%, with a 95% confidence interval of (85.7-
95.3); the percent negative agreement was 99.3%, with a 95% confidence interval of
(96.2- 99.9).
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M.3.a
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
		Giemsa Stain		
		Detected	Not
Detected	Not
Available
Ventana anti-H.
pylori (SP48)	Detected	136	2	1
	Not
Detected	3	153	1
	Not
Available	1	1	1

--- Page 9 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Ventana anti-H. pylori (SP48) stains the entire Helicobacter pylori organism. The stain
allows for one or more organisms to be visualized and the size, morphology and location
of the stained organism is consistent with that of H. pylori.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Performance of the assay was established in preclinical studies comparing detection of H.
pylori with Ventana anti-H. pylori (SP48) to a modified Giemsa assay (Ventana) in
human gastric tissue samples that ranged from not colonized to heavily colonized with H.
pylori. H. pylori status was scored as not detected, detected, or not evaluable. A
retrospective, method comparison study was conducted at three independent clinical sites
to demonstrate the positive and negative percent agreement rates for the comparison of
Ventana anti-H. pylori (SP48) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody with Ventana
Giemsa Staining Kit in determining the presence of H. pylori.
N. Instrument Name:
BenchMark XT and BenchMark Ultra auto slide stainer.
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
All sample tested can be conducted on the Benchmark series instruments of instruments:
BenchMark XT version NexES 10.6 and BenchMark Ultra version VSS 11.9.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ____X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Positive staining intensity should be assessed within the context of any non-specific
background staining of the negative reagent control. As with any
immunohistochemical test, a negative result means that the antigen in question was
not detected, not that the antigen is absent in the cells or tissue assayed. If necessary,
use a panel of antibodies to aid in the identification of false negative reactions. The
morphology of each tissue sample should also be examined utilizing a hematoxylin
and eosin stained section when interpreting any immunohistochemical result. The
9

--- Page 10 ---
patient's morphologic findings and pertinent clinical data must be interpreted by a
qualified pathologist.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Routinely processed, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues are suitable for use
with this primary antibody when used with Ventana detection kits and the
BenchMark XT or BenchMark Ultra automated slide stainer. The recommended
tissue fixative is 10% neutral buffered formalin. Slides should be stained
immediately, as antigenicity of cut tissue sections may diminish over time. It is
recommended that positive and negative tissue controls be run simultaneously with
unknown specimens.
5. Calibration:
The NexES/VSS Host Software provides a number of screens to allow service personal to
calibrate and service the staining instrument. Some screens allow for the changing
of slide adjust volumes, air pressure transducers, temperature offsets, instruments serial
numbers and stainers effective types. Each error message is listed and defined in the
BenchMark series operator's manuals.
6. Quality Control:
Positive Tissue Control
The stained positive tissue control should be examined first to ascertain that all
reagents are functioning properly. The presence of an appropriately colored reaction
product of appropriate size, morphology, and location in the tissue is indicative of
positive reactivity. Depending on the incubation length and potency of the
hematoxylin used, counterstaining will result in a pale to dark blue coloration of cell
nuclei. Excessive or incomplete counterstaining may compromise proper
interpretation of results.
If the positive tissue control fails to demonstrate positive staining, any results with
the test specimens should be considered invalid.
Negative Tissue Control
The negative tissue control should be examined after the positive tissue control to
verify the specific labeling of the target antigen by the primary antibody. The absence
of specific staining in the negative tissue control confirms the lack of antibody cross-
reactivity to cells or cellular components. If specific staining occurs in the negative
tissue control, results with the patient specimen should be considered invalid.
Nonspecific staining, if present, will have a diffuse appearance. Sporadic light
staining of connective tissue may also be observed in sections from excessively
10

--- Page 11 ---
formalin fixed tissues. Intact cells should be used for interpretation of staining results.
Necrotic or degenerated cells often stain nonspecifically.
Negative Reagent Control
A negative reagent control must be run for every specimen to aid in the interpretation
of results. A negative reagent control is used in place of the primary antibody to
evaluate nonspecific staining. The slide should be stained with CONFIRM Negative
Control Rabbit Ig. The incubation period for the negative reagent control should
equal the primary antibody incubation period.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not applicable.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11