
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k101335
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device with a 5-part differential for WBC and ability to detect
crystals in synovial fluid. This device will replace the currently cleared Cell-Chex™
and will have the same trade name.
C. Measurand:
Assayed control for Red Blood Cells (RBC), White Blood Cells (WBC), Neutrophils
(NEUT) %, Lymphocytes (LYM)%, Monocytes (MONO) %, Eosinophils (EOS) %,
and Basophils (BASO) %, Mononuclear %, Polymorphonuclear %, Monosodium
Urate Crystals.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative and Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Streck Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Cell-Chex™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology quality control mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GLQ, Mixture, Control, White Cell and Red Cell Indices
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cell-ChexTM is an assayed control intended for monitoring total cell counts
performed manually using a hemocytometer to validate quantitation of red and
white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal fluid and body fluid samples including
pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial fluid. Level 1contains monosodium
urate crystals which can be used to monitor the presence of crystals in synovial
fluid. Cell-ChexTM is also intended for monitoring white blood cell differentiation
(Mononuclear and Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils, Eosinophils, Basophils,
Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in body fluid samples performed using Cytospin®
smears.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use(s)
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
Cell-Chex™ is a stabilized suspension of human red blood cells (RBC), human white
blood cells (WBC) and monosodium urate crystals (Level 1 only) in a preservative
medium. In addition, Level 1 contains a low cell count and Level 2 contains a high
cell count.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Cell-Chex™
2. Predicate K number(s):
k000076
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Cell-Chex™ Cell-Chex™ (predicate)
Intended Use An assayed control intended for monitoring Same
total cell counts performed manually using a
hemocytometer to validate quantitation of red
and white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal
fluid and body fluid samples including
pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial
fluid.
Final Product There are two different levels. The product is Same
Form packaged in glass vials containing 2 mL. The
vials are packaged in a six (6) or twelve (12)
welled vacuum formed “clam shell” container
with instructions for use and assay sheet.
Open vial 30 days when stored at 2-10°C Same
stability
Differences
Item Cell-Chex™ Cell-Chex™ (predicate)
Analytes Detects crystals in synovial fluid Does not detect crystals in
Provides 5-part differential for WBC synovial fluid
(Neutrophils, Eosinophils, Basophils, Does not provide 5-part
Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in body fluid differential for WBC in body
samples performed using Cytospin® smears fluids
Reagents Level 1 contains monosodium urate crystals No monosodium urate
crystals
Closed vial 60 days when stored at 2-10°C 6 months when stored at 2-
stability 10°C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI, Evaluation of Precision of Quantitative Measurement Methods; Approved
Guidelines-Second Edition (EP5-A2).
L. Test Principle:
Cell-Chex™ is an in-vitro diagnostic product that is used for quality control

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Cell-Chex™			Cell-Chex™ (predicate)	
Intended Use			An assayed control intended for monitoring
total cell counts performed manually using a
hemocytometer to validate quantitation of red
and white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal
fluid and body fluid samples including
pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial
fluid.			Same		
Final Product
Form			There are two different levels. The product is
packaged in glass vials containing 2 mL. The
vials are packaged in a six (6) or twelve (12)
welled vacuum formed “clam shell” container
with instructions for use and assay sheet.			Same		
Open vial
stability			30 days when stored at 2-10°C			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Cell-Chex™			Cell-Chex™ (predicate)	
Analytes			Detects crystals in synovial fluid
Provides 5-part differential for WBC
(Neutrophils, Eosinophils, Basophils,
Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in body fluid
samples performed using Cytospin® smears			Does not detect crystals in
synovial fluid
Does not provide 5-part
differential for WBC in body
fluids		
Reagents			Level 1 contains monosodium urate crystals			No monosodium urate
crystals		
Closed vial
stability			60 days when stored at 2-10°C			6 months when stored at 2-
10°C		

--- Page 3 ---
procedures associated with body fluid counting protocols. Total cell counts are
performed with a hemocytometer. Crystal analysis can be performed using light or
polarized light microscopy. Differential cell counts of body fluids are performed
using Cytospin® smears stained by means of routine hematology staining techniques.
M. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Run-to-run reproducibility: Streck produced data from 10 consecutive runs on
three lots of each control level on both the hemacytometer and Cytospin®.
The results fell within parameter specific assay value assignment ranges and
are reflective of ±3SD for the WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the
red and white blood cell parameters. Level 1 results were positive for
crystals. Level 2 results were negative for crystals.
Precision performance: Data was collected internally and at external sites.
Streck selected eight external sites to run a single lot of Cell-Chex control in
accordance with the product’s instructions for use (IFU) using the
hemacytometer and Cytospin®. Cell-Chex control materials were stored by
the external sites and handled in accordance with the IFU. The controls were
run between 14-17 times over the course of several weeks. The results fell
within parameter specific assay value assignment ranges and are reflective of
±3SD for the WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the red and white
blood cell parameters. Level 1 results were positive for crystals. Level 2
results were negative for crystals.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment: Specific to each lot and level of control, a total of five vials
were analyzed in duplicate. A cumulative mean, standard deviation and %CV
were calculated for all measurands reported using Cell-Chex™ with the
hemacytometer and Cytospin® platforms. Crystals were identified as
"positive" if observed microscopically. The parameter specific assay value
assignment ranges are reflective of ±3SD for the WBC differential parameters
and ±2 SD for the RBC and WBC parameters.
Open vial stability: At each testing interval the vials of control were analyzed
one time with the hemacytometer and Cytospin®. On non-testing days, all
vials of control were removed from 2-10°C storage, equilibrated to room
temperature and mixed in accordance with the IFU. Three separate lots were
analyzed to verify performance throughout the proposed 30 day open vial
dating. The results fell within parameter specific assay value assignment
ranges and are reflective of ±3SD for the WBC differential parameters and
±2SD for the red and white blood cell parameters. Level 1 results were
positive for crystals. Level 2 results were negative for crystals.
Closed vial stability: The control vials were analyzed 10-15 times over the

--- Page 4 ---
course of 60 days. Control vials were then analyzed once using both the
hemacytometer and Cytospin™. Three separate lots were set up to verify
performance throughout the 60 day expiration dating. The results fell within
parameter specific assay value assignment ranges and are reflective of ±3SD
for the WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the red and white blood
cell parameters. Level 1 results were positive for crystals. Level 2 results
were negative for crystals.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off: Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range: Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.