
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k101371
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for diabetes data management software accessory for use with the On
Call® Plus Glucose Meter (k090057)
C. Measurand:
Whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Data management system
E. Applicant:
Acon Laboratories, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
On Call Plus Diabetes Monitoring Software
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec.- 862.1345-Glucose test system.
21CFR Sec.- 862.2100-Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
II, I
3. Product code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over The Counter
JQP - Calculator/Data Processing Module, For Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry – 75
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indication(s) for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The On Call® Plus Diabetes Software is an optional software accessory to be
used with the On Call® Plus Glucose Meter for transferring data to a computer
and organizing it in tables and graphs to be used at home and by health care
1 of 6

--- Page 2 ---
professionals. The software does not recommend any medical treatment or
medication dosage level.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
On Call® Plus Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
The On Call® Plus Diabetes Monitoring Software is for downloading glucose data
from the On Call Plus Glucose meter to a PC through an USB to RS232 TTL level
cable or RS232 to RS232 TTL level cable, with tracking and trending capabilities of
glucose measurements.
The Diabetes Data Management Software is intended to be used in a clinical setting
with multiple patients by a healthcare professional, or directly by the patient.
The user has the choice to install either a personal “Home” or “Professional” version.
In the “Home” version, glucose results are assembled for a single user. In the
“Professional” version, the software user can configure a database with multiple
providers and patients. The number of providers, patients and data points is limited
only by the computer’s capabilities.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bayer Healthcare, Glucofacts® Delux Diabetes Management Software
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K091820
3. Comparison with predicate:
Features On Call® Plus Diabetes Monitoring Glucofacts® Delux
Software Diabetes Management
Software (K091820)
Similarities
Intended use The On Call® Plus Diabetes Software is Same
/Indication(s) for an optional software accessory for
use transferring data from glucose meter to a
computer and organizing it in tables and
graphs to be used at home and by health
care professionals. The software does not
recommend any medical treatment or
medication dosage level.
COM Ports scan Automatic scan for connected ports Same
Multiple patients Can list data for multiple patients Same
Data list/ Summary List of all readings inside selected time Same
report frame
2 of 6

[Table 1 on page 2]
Features	On Call® Plus Diabetes Monitoring
Software	Glucofacts® Delux
Diabetes Management
Software (K091820)
Similarities		
Intended use
/Indication(s) for
use	The On Call® Plus Diabetes Software is
an optional software accessory for
transferring data from glucose meter to a
computer and organizing it in tables and
graphs to be used at home and by health
care professionals. The software does not
recommend any medical treatment or
medication dosage level.	Same
COM Ports scan	Automatic scan for connected ports	Same
Multiple patients	Can list data for multiple patients	Same
Data list/ Summary
report	List of all readings inside selected time
frame	Same

--- Page 3 ---
Features On Call® Plus Diabetes Monitoring Glucofacts® Delux
Software Diabetes Management
Software (K091820)
Reports and charts Data List, Log Book report, Standard Day Same
report, Trend report, Pie charts
Target levels High, low, hyper and hypo glucose target Same
levels can be changed
Time periods Daily time periods can be changed Same
Units of measure Can choose either mg/dL or mmol/L Same
mg/dL is default
Data Base Can Set up multiple patient data bases Same
Differences
Change Meter Does not allow change to meter settings Allows target range, alarm
settings through the Diabetes Monitoring sounds and optional level
Software changes to supported meters
through the Management
Software
Operating System Microsoft Windows 2000, XP Microsoft Windows XP,
Home/Professional, Vista, windows 7 Vista or Mac OS 10.5.7 or
later (Mac is only an option
with the Contour USB
meter)
Associate a meter No association Software can be set to
to a person recognize meters and
associate them to specific
patients
Standard week No Standard Week report A graph that displays all
report readings by day overlapping
all the days on a one week
graph
Average Week A bar graph that averages all readings for No average week report
each day by day of the week, Sunday
through Saturday and before and after
meals.
Average Day A bar graph that averages all readings for No average day report
each day by time slot and before and after
meals.
Password Allows providers accounts to be password Does not have password
protected protection on the software
Providers Allows for multiple providers each with Does not have providers but
their own data base of patients does allow for multiple
databases
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• ISO 14971:2007, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical
devices.
• IEC 62366, Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical
devices.
• IEC 62304 Ed. 1.0, Medical device software - Software life cycle processes.
L. Test Principle:
Data Transmission of whole blood glucose data from glucose meter
3 of 6

[Table 1 on page 3]
Features	On Call® Plus Diabetes Monitoring
Software	Glucofacts® Delux
Diabetes Management
Software (K091820)
Reports and charts	Data List, Log Book report, Standard Day
report, Trend report, Pie charts	Same
Target levels	High, low, hyper and hypo glucose target
levels can be changed	Same
Time periods	Daily time periods can be changed	Same
Units of measure	Can choose either mg/dL or mmol/L
mg/dL is default	Same
Data Base	Can Set up multiple patient data bases	Same
Differences		
Change Meter
settings	Does not allow change to meter settings
through the Diabetes Monitoring
Software	Allows target range, alarm
sounds and optional level
changes to supported meters
through the Management
Software
Operating System	Microsoft Windows 2000, XP
Home/Professional, Vista, windows 7	Microsoft Windows XP,
Vista or Mac OS 10.5.7 or
later (Mac is only an option
with the Contour USB
meter)
Associate a meter
to a person	No association	Software can be set to
recognize meters and
associate them to specific
patients
Standard week
report	No Standard Week report	A graph that displays all
readings by day overlapping
all the days on a one week
graph
Average Week	A bar graph that averages all readings for
each day by day of the week, Sunday
through Saturday and before and after
meals.	No average week report
Average Day	A bar graph that averages all readings for
each day by time slot and before and after
meals.	No average day report
Password	Allows providers accounts to be password
protected	Does not have password
protection on the software
Providers	Allows for multiple providers each with
their own data base of patients	Does not have providers but
does allow for multiple
databases

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
The below performance characteristics as applicable, were presented in specific
glucose meter clearance under k090057
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section M.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
See above statement under section M.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
See above statement under section M.
d. Detection limit:
See above statement under section M.
e. Analytical specificity:
See above statement under section M.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
See above statement under section M.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
See above statement under section M.
4 of 6

--- Page 5 ---
N. Instrument Name:
On Call Plus Diabetes Monitoring Software
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?:
Yes __X__ or No ______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?:
Yes ______ or No __X__
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
Pentium or equivalent processor, USB or RS-232 9-pin serial port, 128 MB
memory, 70 MB hard drive space, minimum 800 x 600 display, CD-ROM drive
Microsoft Windows 2000, XP Home/Professional, Vista, windows 7
3. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on data transmitted from the meter.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
5. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific See above statement under section M.
6. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific See above statement under section M.
5 of 6

--- Page 6 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
A study to verify the accuracy of data transmission from the On Call Plus Blood
Glucose Monitoring Meter to the On Call Plus Diabetes Monitoring Software was
conducted. The data management system was challenged under the conditions in
which it is intended to be used in a professional health care setting.
20 meters were used for the study each with a full memory of 300 readings. Data
stored on the meters incorporated a range of dates and values and included out of
range readings for both high and low and in range data including readings marked as
controls.
This study verified that the data transmitted to the PC from the meters was accurate
and that the data was accurately manipulated by the software 100% of the time.
In addition, 50 participants with varying demographics (age, sex, and education level)
were included for individual consumer use and multiple patient use with health care
provider using both the Home Edition and Professional Edition. The user guide was
used in the study (Flesch Kincaid Grade Level 8.3). Participants were required to
install the software on a computer, download meter data and use the various features
of the program. 96% of the participants evaluated the overall easy of use for the
program as OK or above, on a scale for 1 – 5 where 1(very hard) 3 (OK) and 5 (very
easy).
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6 of 6