
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K101514
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
BD Directigen EZTM RSV assay, K022133
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. The modification of the device consisted in the change from liquid control reagents to dry swabs
controls. This modification has not had any effect or caused any changes to the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of this device.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences). Clinical and analytical
performance/functionality remain unchanged from the previous device. The positive and negative
liquid controls from the legally marketed device have been changed to a dry swab control formulation.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Risk Analysis conducted to identify expected hazards and risks associated with the planned
modifications to the BD Directigen™ EZ RSV assay. Each hazard/risk identified in this analysis
was evaluated according to the Risk Management procedure, and assigned a Risk Index level to
indicate the severity of the hazard/risk and the probability of occurrence. Corrective Action(s) were
then determined, if necessary, for each identified hazard/risk to mitigate the hazard/risk.
b) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity includes:
i) A statement signed by Mr. Gregory P Payne, stating that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by Mr. Gregory P Payne, stating that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
"