
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k102044
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification and assay range verification for Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJX – Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (Assayed and Unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5 is an assayed control for use in calibration
verification and for use in the verification of the assay range established by the
Elecsys Digoxin reagent on the indicated Elecsys and cobas e immunoassay
analyzers
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Roche Elecsys 2010 / cobas e 411 and MODULAR ANALYTICS E170 / cobas e
601 immunoassay analyzers
I. Device Description:
Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5 set is an in vitro diagnostic device that contains 5 levels
of Digoxin in a buffer/protein (bovine serum) matrix. The vials contain 2.0 mL each
and are packaged in sets of 5.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck
2. Predicate K number(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
k973973
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Indications for Use Same For use in the
verification of the
calibration established by
the Elecsys Digoxin
reagent on the indicated
Elecsys and cobas e
immunoassay analyzers.
Analyte Reagent Same Digoxin
Format Same Liquid
Handling Same Mix gently by inversion
to ensure homogeneity
Matrix Same Bovine serum matrix
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Levels Five Three
Stability Unopened: Unopened:
• Store at 2-8ºC until • Store at 2-8ºC until
expiration expiration
date date
Opened: Opened:
• 20-25ºC: 6 hours • 15-25ºC: 5 hours
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for Use			Same			For use in the
verification of the
calibration established by
the Elecsys Digoxin
reagent on the indicated
Elecsys and cobas e
immunoassay analyzers.		
Analyte Reagent			Same			Digoxin		
Format			Same			Liquid		
Handling			Same			Mix gently by inversion
to ensure homogeneity		
Matrix			Same			Bovine serum matrix		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Levels			Five			Three		
Stability			Unopened:
• Store at 2-8ºC until
expiration
date
Opened:
• 20-25ºC: 6 hours			Unopened:
• Store at 2-8ºC until
expiration
date
Opened:
• 15-25ºC: 5 hours		

--- Page 4 ---
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment
A Master calibration curve generated on the Elecsys 2010 analyzer is used
to calculate ng/mL digoxin in each CalCheck for value assignment. Each
master calibrator is standardized by weighing USP Digoxin reference
material into analyte-free bovine serum.
For each Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5 lot manufactured, the CalChecks
are assayed in duplicate on at least three MODULAR ANALYTICS E170
/ cobas e 601 analyzers (master platform). The assigned value of each
CalCheck is defined as the median value obtained over at least 6
determinations (duplicate runs on at least 3 analyzers) of the respective
CalCheck. The assigned range is calculated as ±27% of the assigned
value for levels 2-4 and ±30% of the assigned value for level 5. The label
states that each laboratory should establish appropriate acceptance criteria
when using this product for its intended use.
To ensure the values assigned using the master platform are transferrable
and valid for the other instrument platforms, each Elecsys Digoxin
CalCheck 5 level is assayed once a day on 8 Elecsys 2010 / cobas e 411
analyzers for 1 day. The median value for the 8 analyses must be within
10% of the master platform assigned value. After this acceptance criterion
is met, the assigned values from the master platform are deemed valid for
the Elecsys 2010 / cobas e 411 immunoassay analyzers.
Stability
Open-vial and accelerated stability study protocols and acceptance criteria
were described. As stability studies are not analyzer dependent, all
stability studies were performed on the Elecsys 2010 / cobas e 411
immunoassay analyzer and can be applied to the MODULAR
ANALYTICSE170 / cobas e 601 analyzers. The data support the package
insert claims that open-vial Elecsys Digoxin CalCheck 5 is stable for up to
6 hours at 20-25°C, and that storage at 2-8°C provides stability for 18
months. The expiration date listed on each CalCheck bottle label reflects
this stability time of 18 months. A real-time stability study is ongoing.
4

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
5

--- Page 6 ---
There are 5 levels of the CalCheck 5 kit which span the 0-5 ng/mL measuring
range of the Digoxin assay (see Device Description under section I). The final
assigned values are lot specific and are provided in the labeling.
Dilution Studies were performed where CalCheck 1 & CalCheck 2, and CalCheck
4 & CalCheck 5 were mixed in a 1:1 ratio (as instructed in the draft package insert
for dilutions) and measured in two-fold determination. The Digoxin CalCheck 5
dilution values were within the assay measuring range after dilution.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6