
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K102314
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of the Integrated Cycler
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Focus Diagnostic’s 3M Integrated Cycler with Integrated Cycler Studio Software
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Real-Time PCR; see K100148 for more details on influenza 2009 A/H1N1 analyte
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Integrated Cycler is a thermocycler that is capable of heating, cooling, mixing
of sample and reagents, and real-time detection of flourophores set at four distinct
wavelengths. Sensors on the instrument monitor the status of the primary
functions of the system. The instrument comes in two power formats one for 110
V(MOL1001) and one at 220 V (MOL1101).
2. Principles of Operation:
Extracted nucleic acid from clinical samples is pipetted into appropriate sample
injection wells on the Universal Disc. The instrument utilizes disc media to
contain and to process samples and real-time fluorometric detection to identify
targets within the sample reaction wells. The instrument's operation parameters
are controlled by the use of an external personal computer and associated
software. The disc can process up to 96 independent samples.
Thermal Control Functions
Heating is controlled by activating an optical light source until the desired
temperature is reached. A 500 watt tungsten halogen bulb is mounted in an
elliptical reflector and is controlled by a dimmer control to heat a portion of a
rotating platform. The light source is located underneath the disc platen and
causes warming of the outer ring of platen called the light ring. Cooling of the
reaction chamber is achieved by activating an internal fan that draws in ambient
air. Air is directed onto the light ring cooling the disc. The heating system is
capable of reaching a maximum temperature of 99 °C; and is capable of
1

--- Page 2 ---
maintaining the temperature within ±0.5 °C. Heating can occur at a rate of ≥5
°C/sec and cooling occurs at a rate of ≥4 °C/sec with an ambient temperature of
22 °C.
Motor Functions
The motor that controls the motion of the disc platen can be operated in two
modes dependent on the type of processing: velocity and position modes. Velocity
mode is used for maintaining a constant velocity for heater/cooler control and data
acquisition of the fluorescence reader. Position mode is used for precisely
positioning the sample discs at known locations for laser valving.
Microfluidics
The instrument mixes the reagents with the extracted sample by centrifugal force.
The Universal Disc spins on the platen forcing the sample from the injection well
to the sample reaction well on the perimeter of the Disc.
Optical Subsystem
The optical subsystem of the Integrated Cycler performs two distinct functions.
The primary function of the system is the detection of fluorescence in each of the
four optical channels. An additional function of the subsystem, for future
iterations of the disposable media, is the activation of specific valves located in
the media using laser light. The Integrated Cycler uses fluorescence to quantify
the amount of certain nucleic acid sequences in a sample. The measurement is
performed by optical modules that are optimized for specific detection dyes
determined by the spectral characteristics of the dyes. Each module contains a
LED excitation source, filters, lenses and a fiber port. Fluorescence is collected at
the fiber port and transmitted to a single photomultiplier detector. This design
allows for optimized detection of up to four targets simultaneously. A high degree
of flexibility is achieved by allowing users to interchange modules for other
targets. The optic system is contained within a protective housing and is
controlled by a gantry system which can move the optic system into place to
control the sensing optics and laser valving optics. The sensing and valving optics
are mounted on the gantry to allow the ability to sense and open valves over the
entire area of the sample disc.
3. Modes of Operation:
Batch
4. Specimen Identification:
Entered manually by user
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Specimens are processed according to assay instructions.
6. Calibration:
In-field calibration for the Integrated Cycler is not necessary. Calibration of the
optical modules (excitation and emission gain settings) is performed during the
manufacturing process and the values are stored in the instrument firmware.
7. Quality Control:
Quality control is addressed for each separately cleared specific assay to be run on
the instrument.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.2570 Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
OOI (Real-Time Nucleic Acid Amplification System)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Integrated Cycler and accompanying Studio Software are intended for in
vitro diagnostic use in conjunction with legally marketed Simplexa™ reagent kits
and assay protocols labeled for in vitro diagnostic use.
The Integrated Cycler is a rapid real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
3

--- Page 4 ---
thermocycler used for identification of nucleic acid from prepared biological
samples. The instrument utilizes disc media to contain and to process samples.
The instrument uses real-time flourometric detection to identify targets within the
sample wells. The instrument’s operation parameters are controlled by the use of
an external personal computer and associated software. This instrument is
intended to be used by laboratory professionals trained in laboratory techniques
and in a laboratory environment.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Cepheid SmartCycler Dx system, K062948
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The Integrated Cycler and accompanying The Cepheid SmartCycler Dx
Studio Software are intended for in vitro System utilizes real-time
diagnostic use in conjunction with polymerase chain reaction
legally marketed Simplexa™ reagent (PCR) for a unique gene-
kits and assay protocols labeled for in specific sequence
vitro diagnostic use. amplification nucleic acids
recovered from clinical
The Integrated Cycler is a rapid real-
samples and fluorogenic target
time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
specific hybridization for the
thermocycler used for identification of
detection of the amplified
nucleic acid from prepared biological
DNA.
samples. The instrument utilizes disc
media to contain and to process
samples. The instrument uses real-time
flourometric detection to identify targets
within the sample wells. The
instrument’s operation parameters are
controlled by the use of an external
personal computer and associated
software. This instrument is intended to
be used by laboratory professionals
trained in laboratory techniques and in a
laboratory environment.
Assay PCR-based system for detecting the PCR-based system for
Methodology presence / absence of DNA or RNA in detecting the presence /
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Integrated Cycler and accompanying
Studio Software are intended for in vitro
diagnostic use in conjunction with
legally marketed Simplexa™ reagent
kits and assay protocols labeled for in
vitro diagnostic use.
The Integrated Cycler is a rapid real-
time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
thermocycler used for identification of
nucleic acid from prepared biological
samples. The instrument utilizes disc
media to contain and to process
samples. The instrument uses real-time
flourometric detection to identify targets
within the sample wells. The
instrument’s operation parameters are
controlled by the use of an external
personal computer and associated
software. This instrument is intended to
be used by laboratory professionals
trained in laboratory techniques and in a
laboratory environment.			The Cepheid SmartCycler Dx
System utilizes real-time
polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) for a unique gene-
specific sequence
amplification nucleic acids
recovered from clinical
samples and fluorogenic target
specific hybridization for the
detection of the amplified
DNA.		
Assay
Methodology			PCR-based system for detecting the
presence / absence of DNA or RNA in			PCR-based system for
detecting the presence /		

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
clinical specimens absence of DNA or RNA in
clinical specimens
Detection Multiplex assay using different reporter Multiplex assay using different
Techniques dyes for each target. reporter dyes for each target.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample Up to 96 specimens and controls in a Up to 16 specimens and
Capacity single run using the Universal Disc. controls per modular unit. Up
to 6 modules may be installed
for a total of 96 specimens and
controls.
Sample 96 well Universal Disc with Universal Individual Smart Tube and
Handling Disc Sealer. Smart Cap system.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex
Test Systems:
http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/GuidanceDocum
ents/ucm077819.htm
J. Performance Characteristics:
All assay analytical and clinical testing was reviewed in K100148. This submission
is linked to the assay data presented there.
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K100148) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision/Reproducibility was assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K100148) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
c. Linearity:
N/A since 2009 A/H1N1 is a qualitative assay.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			clinical specimens			absence of DNA or RNA in
clinical specimens		
Detection
Techniques			Multiplex assay using different reporter
dyes for each target.			Multiplex assay using different
reporter dyes for each target.		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample
Capacity			Up to 96 specimens and controls in a
single run using the Universal Disc.			Up to 16 specimens and
controls per modular unit. Up
to 6 modules may be installed
for a total of 96 specimens and
controls.		
Sample
Handling			96 well Universal Disc with Universal
Disc Sealer.			Individual Smart Tube and
Smart Cap system.		

--- Page 6 ---
d. Carryover:
Carryover was assessed during the clearance of the assay (K100148) and will
be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
e. Interfering Substances:
Interfering Substances were assessed during the clearance of the assay
(K100148) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this system.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.
6