
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k102063
B. Purpose for Submission:
A new 510(k) for a diabetes management software accessory to cleared blood glucose
meters
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Health-e-Connect System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The ALRT Health-e-Connect System (HeC) is an internet based blood glucose
monitoring system that allows healthcare providers and patients the opportunity to
review, analyze and evaluate the efficacy of a diabetes management program.
The Health-e-Connect System is comprised of a home based application, legally
marketed blood glucose meters (FreeStyle Freedom, FreeStyle Feedom Lite,
FreeStyle Lite, Precision Xtra, Breeze2, Contour, OneTouch Ultra2, OneTouch
UltraMini, Aviva, Compact Plus glucose meters) and a server.
The Health-e-Connect Programmer is a PC based application software used to
register a patient’s glucose meter with the Health-e-Connect System and upload
historical patient blood glucose level data to Health-e-Connect system’s web-based
servers. The home based application software collects data from blood glucose
meters and transmits the data over the home’s existing internet connection where
it is uploaded to the Health-e-Connect System’s web-based servers.
The server is a web-based application that collects, stores and displays historical
patient blood sugar levels. It also allows patients, healthcare providers, patient
relatives and other healthcare providers involved in the case to send messages to
each other and share patient information. This communication is retrospective and
not a real- time alert or alarm. The Health-e-Connect System is a tool to monitor
patients remotely and motivate them through notifications.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
The operating system requirements for the Health-e-Connect System are: Windows
XP, Windows Vista 32 bit and 64 bit, or Windows 7.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission:
Yes or No X .
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
6. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes X or No .
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1345 Glucose Test System
21 CFR § 862.2100 Calculator/Data Processing Module for Clinical Use
2. Classification:
Class II, I (respectively)
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Product code:
NBW, Blood Glucose Test System, Over-the-Counter
JQP, Calculator/Data Processing Module for Clinical Use
4. Panel:
75 (Clinical Chemistry)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Health-e-Connect System is intended for use in the home and clinical settings
by people with diabetes and healthcare providers as an aid in the review, analysis
and evaluation of historical glucose test results and associated usage data in
support of an effective diabetes management program.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
None
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Express MD Solutions, LLC; Electronic House Call System; k090801
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Item Candidate Predicate
Health-e-connect System Electronic House Call
System (k090801)
Intended Use The Health-e-Connect System is intended Same
for use in the home and clinical settings
by people with diabetes and healthcare
providers as an aid in the review, analysis
and evaluation of historical glucose test
results and associated usage data in
support of an effective diabetes
management program.
Data Sources Electronic upload of data from supported Same
blood glucose meters and manual entry of
data
Compatibility For use with the supported glucose meters Same
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Item			Candidate			Predicate	
				Health-e-connect System			Electronic House Call	
							System (k090801)	
Intended Use			The Health-e-Connect System is intended
for use in the home and clinical settings
by people with diabetes and healthcare
providers as an aid in the review, analysis
and evaluation of historical glucose test
results and associated usage data in
support of an effective diabetes
management program.			Same		
Data Sources			Electronic upload of data from supported
blood glucose meters and manual entry of
data			Same		
Compatibility			For use with the supported glucose meters			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
No standards cited
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were presented in the
specific glucose meter clearances under (k051839, k070850, k092602, k010553,
k053529, k061118, k060470, k062347, k081389, k043474).
a. Accuracy:
See above statement under section J.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J.
c. Linearity:
See above statement under section J.
d. Carryover:
See above statement under section J.
e. Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a) The sponsor conducted bench testing using all 10 claimed glucose meters:
FreeStyle Freedom, FreeStyle Feedom Lite, FreeStyle Lite, Precision Xtra,
Breeze2, Contour, OneTouch Ultra2, OneTouch UltraMini, Aviva, Compact
Plus. The testing verified completeness and accuracy of blood glucose value
transfer, data rollover, correct time stamps, serial number and model, and
HeC identified flags such as control solutions used. The study confirmed the
ability of the HeC System to capture and record glucose data accurately when
transferred from each of the claimed glucose meters.
b) The usability study consisted of three components: 1) 22 lay-users with
varying demographics (age, sex, and education level) were included in a
usability study for electronically uploading data from glucose meters.
Following the study the study participants also completed a questionnaire in
4

--- Page 5 ---
response to whether the data transmission feature is easy to use. 2) 2 health
care professionals completed surveys following the study. 3) 28 study
participants with varying demographics (age, sex, and education level)
performed manual data entry for at least 2 days worth of data. These
participants completed a survey following the study. The sponsor concluded
that the user’s responses indicated that data transmission function was easy to
operate by following the instructions provided with the system.
c) The following documentation related to the software was reviewed and found
to be acceptable: level of concern, software description, device hazard
analysis, software requirements specifications, software design specification,
software development environment description, and verification and
validation testing.
d) The sponsor performed a readability study and obtained a Flesch-Kincaid
Grade Level Score of 7.5 for the User Manual. The readability of the
labeling was also assessed as part of the usability studies and surveys.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5