
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k102267
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibration verification and assay range verification for Elecsys Ferritin Reagent
D. Type of Test:
Assayed quality control materials
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck 5
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, reserved 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck 5 is an assayed control for use in calibration
verification and for use in the verification of the assay range established by the
Elecsys Ferritin reagent on the indicated Elecsys and cobas e immunoassay
analyzers.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJX			Class I, reserved			862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with Elecsys Ferritin reagent on the Modular Analytics E170/cobas e 601
and Elecsys 2010/cobas e 411 analyzers.
I. Device Description:
The Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck 5 set contains five levels of ferritin from human liver
in a human serum matrix. During manufacture, human ferritin is spiked into the
matrix at the target concentrations listed below. CalCheck Level 1 is free of analyte.
Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck Level Target Value (ng/mL)
Level 1 Less than 2
Level 2 27.5
Level 3 915
Level 4 1550
Level 5 1970
All human source materials were prepared exclusively from the blood of donors
tested individually and found to be nonreactive for HBsAg, antibodies to HCV and
HIV. The testing methods were FDA approved or cleared in compliance with the
European Directive 98/79/EC.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Elecsys CalCheck Ferritin
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k981281 (Elecsys Ferritin)
3. Comparison with predicate
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck Level	Target Value (ng/mL)
Level 1	Less than 2
Level 2	27.5
Level 3	915
Level 4	1550
Level 5	1970

--- Page 3 ---
Candidate Device Predicate - Elecsys
CalCheck Ferritin
(k981281)
Indications for Use The Elecsys Ferritin Same
CalCheck 5 is an assayed
control for use in
calibration verification and
for use in the verification
of the assay range
established by the Elecsys
Ferritin reagent on the
indicated Elecsys and
cobas e immunoassay
analyzers.
Analyte Ferritin Same
Matrix Human serum Same
Format Aqueous Same
Number of levels per 5 3
set
Stability Unopened: Store at 2 to 8ºC Unopened: Same
until expiration date Opened: 5 hours at
Opened: 4 hours at 20 to 25ºC 20 to 25ºC
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Candidate Device	Predicate - Elecsys
CalCheck Ferritin
(k981281)
Indications for Use	The Elecsys Ferritin
CalCheck 5 is an assayed
control for use in
calibration verification and
for use in the verification
of the assay range
established by the Elecsys
Ferritin reagent on the
indicated Elecsys and
cobas e immunoassay
analyzers.	Same
Analyte	Ferritin	Same
Matrix	Human serum	Same
Format	Aqueous	Same
Number of levels per
set	5	3
Stability	Unopened: Store at 2 to 8ºC
until expiration date
Opened: 4 hours at 20 to 25ºC	Unopened: Same
Opened: 5 hours at
20 to 25ºC

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The sponsor claims traceability of ferritin used in this quality control set to
National Institute for Biological Standards and Controls (NIBSC) reagent for
Ferritin (human liver) 80/602. The Elecsys Ferritin assay was standardized
against the Enzymun-Test Ferritin method.
Value Assignment
For each Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck 5 lot manufactured, value assignment for
each level of CalCheck was performed by duplicate runs on at least three
Elecsys Modular Analytics E170/cobas e 601 analyzers. Additionally, the
same value assignment procedure was performed on the Elecsys 2010/cobas e
411 analyzers. The assigned target value of each CalCheck is the median of
the observed values. The labeling states that obtained values should fall within
the specified range provided on lot-specific value sheets and that laboratories
should establish appropriate acceptance criteria when using this product for its
intended use.
Stability
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found to
be acceptable. Closed (unopened) vial shelf life of 2 years at the
recommended storage temperature (2 to 8ºC) was demonstrated based on
accelerated stability studies. Real-time closed-vial stability studies for the
Elecsys Ferritin CalCheck 5 solutions are ongoing. Open vial stability of 4
hours was demonstrated at the recommended storage temperature of 20 to
25ºC. Storage recommendations are provided in the labeling.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
4

--- Page 5 ---
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
5