
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k102260
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for a blood glucose monitor
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc. (FDI)
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
FDI Glucose Control Solution
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, 21 CFR 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry (75)
reserved Quality Control Material
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indication for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The FDI Glucose Control Solution is intended for in vitro diagnostic use (i.e. for external
use only) by healthcare professionals and in the home by people with diabetes mellitus to
assess the performance of FreeStyle Lite Blood Glucose Monitor.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification				Regulation Section				Panel		
JJX			Class I,
reserved				21 CFR 862.1660
Quality Control Material				Clinical Chemistry (75)			

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use only
For over the counter use
3. Special instrument requirements:
FreeStyle Lite Blood Glucose Monitor
I. Device Description:
The FDI Glucose Control Solution consists of a viscosity-adjusted, aqueous liquid control
solution containing a known quantity of glucose. The product is packaged in plastic dropper
tipped bottles for easy application of the control solutions to the test strips and a red
coloration to aid the user to visually confirm application of the control. The product is non-
hazardous and contains no human or animal derived materials.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
AbT Glucose Control Solution
2. Predicate 510(k) number:
k083549
4. Comparison with predicate:
See below
2

--- Page 3 ---
Predicate
Characteristic/
Device New Product
Aspect
(k083549)
Indications for Same Intended for in vitro diagnostic use by healthcare
Use professionals and in the home by people with diabetes
mellitus to assess the performance of Blood Glucose Monitor
Number of 1 1
Levels
Analyte Same Glucose
Target (mg/dL) Same 88
Target Range
80 – 130 75 – 125
(mg/dL)
Container Same Plastic bottle with dropper-tip
Fill Volume Same 3.6 mL
Color Same Red
Matrix Same Buffered aqueous solution of D-Glucose, a viscosity
modifier, preservatives, and other non-reactive ingredients
Target Same Professional and home use
Population
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristic/
Aspect		Predicate		New Product
		Device		
		(k083549)		
Indications for
Use	Same			Intended for in vitro diagnostic use by healthcare
professionals and in the home by people with diabetes
mellitus to assess the performance of Blood Glucose Monitor
Number of
Levels	1			1
Analyte	Same			Glucose
Target (mg/dL)	Same			88
Target Range
(mg/dL)	80 – 130			75 – 125
Container	Same			Plastic bottle with dropper-tip
Fill Volume	Same			3.6 mL
Color	Same			Red
Matrix	Same			Buffered aqueous solution of D-Glucose, a viscosity
modifier, preservatives, and other non-reactive ingredients
Target
Population	Same			Professional and home use

[Table 2 on page 3]
Characteristic/
Aspect

--- Page 4 ---
Traceability:
The glucose added to the control material (0.88g/L) is tested using a clinical chemistry
analyzer’s glucose assay against an 88 mg/dL standard traceable to the NIST reference
material 917c. The sponsor states that the 88 mg/dL standard is manufactured in
accordance with the NIST “Instructions for Use as a Standard in Clinical Applications”
which accompanies the certificate of analysis for SRM917c.
Value Assignment:
The control material with an expected value of 88 mg/dL is tested using a commercially
available clinical chemistry analyzer. Value assignment protocol for Free Style Lite blood
glucose monitor involve repeated testing on the glucose monitor to obtain the mean and
variance values. The assigned range is based upon a percentage of the obtained mean
(±21%). The expected results may vary slightly with each lot. The expected range is
listed in the product insert for the glucose control material. In addition, the product insert
for this device alerts the user to use the range indicated in this control’s product insert
rather than the range provided in the glucose test strip product’s insert that applies to
another commercially available control material.
Stability:
Shelf life of the control was determined using real time and open vial stability. The
control is stored at room temperature.
Real time stability
The control material was assayed using a commercially available clinical chemistry
analyzer and glucose assay every other month for 24 months. Three replicates of the
control material were assayed for each level.
The study satisfied the acceptance criteria and supports the shelf life claim of 24 months.
Open vial stability
Two sets of control solution vials were used to perform the study. One set of sample vials
were opened everyday for 10 minutes and closed. Each week these samples were assayed
and compared against the unopened set of vials. Each measurement was done in
triplicate. The experiment was carried out for 13 weeks.
The data satisfied the acceptance criteria and support the open vial stability claim of 90
days (after opening) in the labeling.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values are provided on the vial labels and Package insert.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
5

--- Page 6 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6