
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k102016
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Multiple constituents listed in the package insert
D. Type of Test:
Multi-analyte control materials
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Section
JJY Class 1, reserved 21 CFR (75) Chemistry
862.1660
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
Product Code	Classification		Regulation		Panel
			Section		
JJY	Class 1, reserved	21 CFR
862.1660			(75) Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2 are for use in quality control by monitoring
accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the value
sheets.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The assays were run on modular P, cobas c 510 and Integra analyzers
I. Device Description:
The PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2 consist of lyophilized human sera with
constituents added as required to obtain desired component levels. Concentrations of
the components in the controls have been adjusted to represent normal and
pathological levels. The concentrations of the components in the controls are lot-
specific.
All products derived from human blood are prepared exclusively from the blood of
donors tested individually and shown to be free from HBsAg and antibodies to HCV
and HIV. The testing methods applied were FDA-approved
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Precinorm U plus and Precipath U plus controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k042389
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Characteristic PreciControl ClinChem Precinorm U plus and
Multi 1 and 2 controls Precipath U plus controls
(K042389)
Intended Use Same For use in quality control by
monitoring accuracy and
precision for the quantitative
methods as specified in the
value sheets.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Characteristic	PreciControl ClinChem
Multi 1 and 2 controls	Precinorm U plus and
Precipath U plus controls
(K042389)
Intended Use	Same	For use in quality control by
monitoring accuracy and
precision for the quantitative
methods as specified in the
value sheets.

--- Page 3 ---
Format Same Precinorm U plus and
Precipath U plus are
lyophilized controls based on
human serum. The adjusted
concentrations and activities
of the control components are
usually in the normal and
pathological ranges.
Stability • Same • Unopened: Stable at 2-8°C
until expiration date.
• Same • Stability of components
after reconstitution*: at 15–25
°C 12 hours at 2–8 °C 5 days
at (-15)–(-25) °C 4 weeks
(when frozen once)
*Exceptions stated for total *Exceptions stated for total
bilirubin, direct bilirubin, bilirubin, direct bilirubin and
UIBC, and ALT Bicarbonate
Traceability Same Traceability of the target
values is given in the
respective instructions for use
of the system reagents.
Value Same Traceable through Master lot
Assignment to standard or reference
method
Differences : The PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2 controls(candidate
device) and Precinorm U plus and Precipath U plus controls(predicate) differ only
in the constituent analytes.
The following table gives a list of the constituent analytes included in each
test system
PreciControl ClinChem Precinorm U plus and Precipath U plus controls
Multi 1 and 2 controls (k042389)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Format	Same	Precinorm U plus and
Precipath U plus are
lyophilized controls based on
human serum. The adjusted
concentrations and activities
of the control components are
usually in the normal and
pathological ranges.
Stability	• Same
• Same
*Exceptions stated for total
bilirubin, direct bilirubin,
UIBC, and ALT	• Unopened: Stable at 2-8°C
until expiration date.
• Stability of components
after reconstitution*: at 15–25
°C 12 hours at 2–8 °C 5 days
at (-15)–(-25) °C 4 weeks
(when frozen once)
*Exceptions stated for total
bilirubin, direct bilirubin and
Bicarbonate
Traceability	Same	Traceability of the target
values is given in the
respective instructions for use
of the system reagents.
Value
Assignment	Same	Traceable through Master lot
to standard or reference
method

[Table 2 on page 3]
PreciControl ClinChem
Multi 1 and 2 controls	Precinorm U plus and Precipath U plus controls
(k042389)

--- Page 4 ---
Same Alanine aminotransferase, Albumin, Alkaline phosphatase,
Amylase, Amylase pancreatic, Aspartate aminotransferase,
Bilirubin direct, Bilirubin total, Calcium, Chloride,
Cholesterol, Cholinesterase, Creatine kinase, Creatinine,
Glucose, gamma Glutamyltransferase, Iron, Lactate, Lactate
dehydrogenase, Lipase, Lithium, Magnesium, Phosphate,
Potassium, Sodium, Total protein, Triglycerides, Unsaturated
iron -binding capacity, Urea, Uric acid
Not included Acid phosphatase, Aldolase, Bicarbonate, Copper, Digoxin,
Glutamate dehydrogenase, alpha Hydroxybutyrate
dehydrogenase, Leucine aminopeptidase, Phospholipids,
Thyroxine, T-uptake
alpha 1 Acid glycoprotein, Not included
Antistreptolysin O, alpha 1
Antitrypsin, Apolipoprotein
A1, Apolipoprotein B, C
Reactive protein,
Ceruloplasmin, Complement
C3c, Complement C4,
Creatine kinase MB, HDL-
Cholesterol, Haptoglobin,
Immunoglobulin A,
Immunoglobulin G,
Immunoglobulin M, LDL-
Cholesterol, Prealbumin,
Transferrin, Ferritin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Same	Alanine aminotransferase, Albumin, Alkaline phosphatase,
Amylase, Amylase pancreatic, Aspartate aminotransferase,
Bilirubin direct, Bilirubin total, Calcium, Chloride,
Cholesterol, Cholinesterase, Creatine kinase, Creatinine,
Glucose, gamma Glutamyltransferase, Iron, Lactate, Lactate
dehydrogenase, Lipase, Lithium, Magnesium, Phosphate,
Potassium, Sodium, Total protein, Triglycerides, Unsaturated
iron -binding capacity, Urea, Uric acid
Not included	Acid phosphatase, Aldolase, Bicarbonate, Copper, Digoxin,
Glutamate dehydrogenase, alpha Hydroxybutyrate
dehydrogenase, Leucine aminopeptidase, Phospholipids,
Thyroxine, T-uptake
alpha 1 Acid glycoprotein,
Antistreptolysin O, alpha 1
Antitrypsin, Apolipoprotein
A1, Apolipoprotein B, C
Reactive protein,
Ceruloplasmin, Complement
C3c, Complement C4,
Creatine kinase MB, HDL-
Cholesterol, Haptoglobin,
Immunoglobulin A,
Immunoglobulin G,
Immunoglobulin M, LDL-
Cholesterol, Prealbumin,
Transferrin, Ferritin	Not included

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value Assignment:
The value assignments for each lot of control are performed using three
analyzers ( modular P, cobas c 501 and integra) from each analyzer family
Integra/c111 and Hitachi/cobas. Full calibration using a master calibrator and at
least three separate runs were performed on each analyzer. Each run used one or
more replicates of the control as sample for each assay being assigned. The
mean of all the runs was calculated for each assay and was used as the assigned
control target value. The corresponding control range is calculated as the target
value ± 3 standard deviations (with the standard deviation being the value
obtained from several target value determinations).
The concentrations and activities of the components are lot-specific. The exact
target values are given in the value sheets provided with the finished device or
electronically at the sponsor’s website.
Traceability:
Roche Diagnostics maintains a set of Roche master calibrators for each assay
that have values assigned that are traceable to the various standards, or in-house
developed standards.
Traceability of the target values is given in the respective instructions for use of
the system reagents.
Stability:
The shelf-life was 25 months at 2-8 oC (closed vial) and 16 hours at 25 oC, 6
days at 4 oC and 29 days at -20 oC (open vial/accelerated stability) were
demonstrated through the following studies by the sponsor to support the
stability claims stated in the labeling.
Closed Vial Stability (Real-time/Shelf-life stability)
PCCC1 and PCCC2 are stored at 2-8°C for 25 months. After 25 months, three
replicates of test lot material are analyzed and the average value of % analyte
recovery was compared to the reference material (stored at -80 °C and fresh
reconstituted). Percent recovery was also measured with at least two intermittent
time periods, prior to 25 months. The data supports the shelf life claim 24
months at normal storage conditions of 2-8 °C.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Opened Vial Stability
Data support that samples stored at 2-8 °C for 25 months then keptfor 5 days at
35°C and reconstituted according to the package insert directions and stored
(at 15 – 25 °C for 16 hours; at 2-8°C for 6 days and at ( -15) – (-25 )°C for 29
days) were stable. Three replicates of test lot materials are analyzed and the
average values for % analyte recovery was compared to the reference material
(fresh reconstituted PCCC1 and PCCC2). These data respectively support the
package insert claim of stability of the product at 15–25 °C 12 hours, at 2–8 °C
5 days and at (-15)–(-25) °C 28 days (when frozen once)
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
6

--- Page 7 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Specific values for each lot are stated in the labeling
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7