
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k102064
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modifications to a previously cleared device (BD FACS Sample Prep Assistant II -
k050191):
a. Expanded options for primary sample tubes (in addition to the already
available Vacutainer tubes);
b. Increased throughput by using a shorter wash cycle (three 1-second pulses
replace one 30-second wash) and increasing syringe sizes (the sample/reagent
syringe is increased to 1 mL from 0.5 mL and the lyse syringe is increased to
10 mL from 2.5 mL)
c. Reduced reagent waste for single dispenses (4 μL compared to 5 μL)
d. SPA software version 4.0.2 which supports the above hardware changes and
adds pre-programmed reagent panels for BD Multitest 6-Color TBNK Reagent
(k090967) based on testing results using the Replacement Reagent and
Instrument Family Policy (December 11, 2003).
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
BD Biosciences
BD FACS™ Sample Prep Assistant III accessory to the BD FACSCanto™ system with
BD FACSCanto™ clinical software
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Specimen processor.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The BD FACS Sample Prep Assistant III is a microprocessor-controlled pipetting
and diluting system which automatically prepares whole blood samples using the
lyse / no-wash sample preparation method for flow cytometry. Used as an
accessory to the BD FACSCanto flow cytometer, the SPA III combines fluidic,
optic, robotic, and electronic components to automatically prepare samples for
acquisition and analysis with a flow cytometer.
2. Principles of Operation:
The SPA III pierces the sample tube cap to withdraw sample, aliquots blood and
reagent into daughter tubes, and mixes the sample according to preprogrammed or
custom protocols. The device also adds lysing solution and automates cleaning
procedures. The unit consists of an enclosure, one robotic pipetting module moving
in the X/Y/Z axes, a power supply, a central controller unit, fluid pumps, and a
barcode reader.
3. Modes of Operation:
Automatic, closed mode.
4. Specimen Identification:
To enter the ID, one can scan a primary tube with the barcode scanner, or
manually type a unique identification code (Sample ID) into the worklist.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
1

--- Page 2 ---
The carousel rack holds up to 40 uncapped 12 x 75 mm polystyrene secondary
tubes and is compatible with the BD FACS™ Loader. Each rack has an
identification code stamped on top. A work list can be generated to enter primary
tube identification, tube type, position, panel, and secondary tube positions.
6. Calibration:
Not applicable
7. Quality Control:
Quality control is performed in the context of the FACSCanto System.
Manufacturer also recommends verification of accuracy and precision following
probe change or replacement.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes_X_ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.5220 – Automated Differential Cell Counter
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
GKZ
4. Panel:
81 Hematology
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The BD FACS™ Sample Prep Assistant III is intended to prepare human whole
blood for flow cytometric analysis on BD FACSCanto II flow cytometry systems.
Pipetting blood, reagents and lysing solution using the following previously
cleared assays for flow cytometric analysis on BD FACSCanto II flow cytometry
systems:
• BD Multitest 6-Color TBNK Reagent with or without BD Trucount Tubes
• BD Multitest IMK Kit with or without BD Trucount Tubes
• BD Multitest CD3 FITC/CD16+CD56 PE/CD45 PerCP/CD19 APC with or
without BD Trucount Tubes
• BD Multitest CD3 FITC/CD8 PE/CD45 PerCP/CD4 APC with or without BD
Trucount Tubes
For in vitro diagnostic use.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
None
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
BD FACSCanto system with BD FACSCanto clinical software (k050191)
Note: BD FACS Sample Prep Assistant II is a component of the above mentioned
system.
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item BD FACS Sample Prep BD FACS Sample Prep
Assistant III (k102064) Assistant II (k050191)
Intended Use The BD FACS™ Sample To prepare human whole
Prep Assistant III is blood for flow cytometry.
intended to prepare When used as a pre-
human whole blood for analytical component of
flow cytometric analysis the BD FACSCanto
on BD FACSCanto II system, the SPA II
flow cytometry systems. becomes an accessory to
the BD FACSCanto
system but does not
change the BD
FACSCanto system’s
intended use.
Sample Type Whole blood Same
Preparation Method Automated Same
Differences
Item BD FACS Sample Prep BD FACS Sample Prep
Assistant III (k102064) Assistant II (k050191)
Pipetting Syringe 1 mL sample/reagent 500 μL sample/reagent
syringe syringe
10 mL lyse syringe 2.5 mL lyse syringe
Supported primary blood Vacutainer Vacutainer
sample tubes Sarstedt
Probe rinse 3 pulses of approximately One 30 second wash
1 second
Single-dispense excess 4 μL 5 μL
drawn reagent (waste)
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. CLSI Document. EP5-A2. Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical
Chemistry Devices; Approved Guideline - Second Edition”. 2004.
2. CLSI Document EP9-A2. Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient
Samples; Approved Guidelines - Second Edition. 2002.
3. Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Premarket Notifications for
Automated Differential Cell Counters for Immature or Abnormal Blood Cells;
Final Guidance for Industry and FDA, December 4, 2001.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was assessed based on Method Comparison and Bias Estimation
Using Patient Samples; Approved Guideline, CLSI document EP9-A2.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities					
Item	BD FACS Sample Prep
Assistant III (k102064)			BD FACS Sample Prep	
				Assistant II (k050191)	
Intended Use	The BD FACS™ Sample
Prep Assistant III is
intended to prepare
human whole blood for
flow cytometric analysis
on BD FACSCanto II
flow cytometry systems.		To prepare human whole
blood for flow cytometry.
When used as a pre-
analytical component of
the BD FACSCanto
system, the SPA II
becomes an accessory to
the BD FACSCanto
system but does not
change the BD
FACSCanto system’s
intended use.		
Sample Type	Whole blood		Same		
Preparation Method	Automated		Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences					
Item	BD FACS Sample Prep
Assistant III (k102064)			BD FACS Sample Prep	
				Assistant II (k050191)	
Pipetting Syringe	1 mL sample/reagent
syringe
10 mL lyse syringe		500 μL sample/reagent
syringe
2.5 mL lyse syringe		
Supported primary blood
sample tubes	Vacutainer
Sarstedt		Vacutainer		
Probe rinse	3 pulses of approximately
1 second		One 30 second wash		
Single-dispense excess
drawn reagent (waste)	4 μL		5 μL		

--- Page 4 ---
The SPA III was compared to the manual pipetting using the BD Multitest 6-
Color TBNK Reagent with BD Trucount Tubes in a 3 site external clinical
study. Each site analyzed 255 patient specimens. For CD3+CD4+,
CD3+CD8+ and CD3+ (percent and absolute values) mean bias was within
±1.0 and met the manufacturer’s acceptance criteria of 95% CI on bias < 10%.
For CD3-CD19+ and CD3-CD16+CD56+ (percent and absolute values) mean
bias was within ±4.0% and met the manufacturer’s acceptance criteria of 95%
CI on bias < 20%.
The SPA III with the BD FACSCanto system demonstrated equivalent
performance.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was assessed based on Evaluation of Precision Performance of
Clinical Chemistry Devices; Approved Guideline, CLSI document EP5-A2.
Pipetting precision was assessed gravimetrically for the BD-defined Multitest
protocol using normal donor blood, BD Multi-Check process control, reagent
buffer (to represent reagent). The performance for pipetting blood was found
to be within the manufacturer’s specifications of 50 µL ± 3% and the
performance for pipetting reagent was found to be within the manufacturer’s
specifications of 20 µL ± 7%.
Precision of the staining and lysing of samples was also assessed. This was
demonstrated by measuring the closeness of agreement between independent
test/measurement results obtained under stipulated conditions. These
conditions include multiple operators (3), multiple instruments (3 SPA III),
and duration of testing (21 days) run twice daily in duplicate. The study
samples were CD-Chex normal (CDN) and CD-Chex CD4 low (CDL) stained
with BD Multitest 6-Color TBNK Reagent in BD Trucount Tubes.
Measurements for this study were the absolute counts and percentages of the
following lymphocyte subsets: CD3+CD4+, CD3+CD8+, CD3+, CD3-CD19+
and CD3-CD16+CD56+. The manufacturer’s acceptance criteria were as
follows:
Absolute counts:
95% upper CI on the CV ≤ 10% for CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+
95% upper CI on the CV ≤ 20% for CD19+ and CD16+56+
Percent positives:
95% upper CI on the SD ≤ 2.5
Study results indicate that the device performed according to the
manufacturer’s acceptance criteria.
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Carryover was assessed based on recommendations contained in Class II
Special Controls Guidance Document: Premarket Notifications for Automated
Differential Cell Counters for Immature or Abnormal Blood Cells; Final
Guidance for Industry and FDA, December 4, 2001.
Sample carryover was tested using three donors (in duplicate) on three SPA
III instruments. These studies indicated that the device performed within the
4

--- Page 5 ---
manufacturer’s specification of <0.2%.
Reagent carryover was tested using three donors (in duplicate) on three SPA
III instruments. These studies indicated that the device performed with a carry
over that was within the manufacturer’s specification of <0.01%. The SPA III
with the BD FACSCanto system demonstrated system carryover within
specification.
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Not applicable
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5