
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k103612
B. Purpose for Submission:
To include ALTI method of traceability and value assignment based on the IFCC
method to the previously cleared Calibrator for Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), k061390.
C. Measurand:
Calibrator for Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and Aspartate aminotransferase
(AST).
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable.
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dimension Vista™ Enzyme 2 Calibrator (ENZ 2 CAL-KC321)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIX (Calibrator, Multi-Analyte Mixture)
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
75 Clinical Chemistry (CH)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See below indication(s) for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ENZ 2CAL-KC321 is an in vitro diagnostic product for the calibration of the
alanine aminotransferase (ALT and ALTI) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
methods on the Dimension Vista™ system.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription use.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Dimension Vista™ System
I. Device Description:
ENZ 2CAL-KC321 is a liquid, multi-analyte, bovine serum albumin based product
containing alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
from porcine heart. It includes ALTI method of traceability and value assignment
based on the IFCC method.
The kit consists of six vials, three vials of Calibrator A and three vials of Calibrator
B, which are ready for use (no preparation is required). The volume per vial is 1.5
mL.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Dimension Vista® ENZ 2 CAL (KC320)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k061390
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
2

--- Page 3 ---
Item Device Predicate
Indication for Use Same For calibration of Aspartate
Aminotransferase and Alanine
Aminotransferase methods on
the Dimension Vista® System.
Form Same liquid, bovine serum albumin
based
Constituents Same aspartate aminotransferase and
alanine aminotransferase from
porcine heart
Traceability of Same ALT and AST traceable to
Constituents Master pool, Dimension®
clinical chemistry system values
Packaging Same ENZ 2 CAL is packaged in
glass vials containing 1.5
mL/vial. Each carton contains 3
vials of each level.
Levels Same 2
Stability and Storage Same ENZ 2 CAL is stored at 2 to 8°
C
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Traceability of ALTI is traceable to the ALTI is not available
Constituents IFCC ALT@ 37°C
primary reference
method.
K. Standard/Guidance Document referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Indication for Use			Same		For calibration of Aspartate
Aminotransferase and Alanine
Aminotransferase methods on
the Dimension Vista® System.		
Form			Same		liquid, bovine serum albumin
based		
Constituents			Same		aspartate aminotransferase and
alanine aminotransferase from
porcine heart		
Traceability of
Constituents			Same		ALT and AST traceable to
Master pool, Dimension®
clinical chemistry system values		
Packaging			Same		ENZ 2 CAL is packaged in
glass vials containing 1.5
mL/vial. Each carton contains 3
vials of each level.		
Levels			Same		2		
Stability and Storage			Same		ENZ 2 CAL is stored at 2 to 8°
C		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Traceability of
Constituents			ALTI is traceable to the
IFCC ALT@ 37°C
primary reference
method.			ALTI is not available	

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability: ALTI is traceable to the IFCC ALT@ 37°C primary reference
method. The ALT and AST methods uses the older traceability and value
assignment methods cleared under k061390 as ENZ 2CAL-KC320.
Value Assignment: For use with the Vista® Alanine Aminotransferase
(ALTI) method, the bottle value assignment for ALTI in the Vista® ENZ 2
Calibrator (KC321) is accomplished using an anchor pool, traceable to the
IFCC reference method, and then, a master pool assigned based on the anchor
pool using the Dimension Vista® System. The bottle value assignment for
ALT and AST methods uses the older traceability and value assignment
methods cleared under k061390 as ENZ 2CAL-KC320.
Stability: Calibrator shelf life for the Dimension Vista™ Enzyme 2 Calibrator
was determined to be 12 months using the Dimension Vista System in a real time
study. A vial that has been punctured (opened) by the instrument and stored on
board has a seven day stability claim. Once cap is removed, assigned values are
stable for 30 days when recapped immediately after use and stored at 2 - 8°C.
Stability study protocols and acceptance criteria were described and found to be
acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5