
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K103805
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
Transtube MW176 OT MD176 (K872213)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
The Indication/Intended Use statement has not changed.
The Medical Wire S-Transwab® products are substantially equivalent to the previously cleared
device. The previously cleared and the modified devices are swab transport systems using
Liquid Amies Medium as the transport medium. The previously cleared and the modified devices
are identical in intended use and overall function
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The modifications were:
• The cleared device has a longer tube to hold the entire swab, with a push fit cap attached
to the swab which forms a seal with the tube.
• The new device has a shorter, self-standing vial with screw cap. The swab shaft has a
breakpoint to allow it to be snapped into the transport vial.
• The new device has been validated in conformity to CLSI M40-A
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and
Item Device: Sigma Transwab® Predicate: Transtube® MW176
MW176S & variants (K103805) & variants (K872213)
Modified
Similarities
Intended Use Transport medium is Liquid Same
Amies.
Test Method The device is used to collect a Same
specimen from patient for
transport to a laboratory and
analysis by microbiological
methods.
Device Type Same Same

[Table 1 on page 1]
Item				Device: Sigma Transwab®		Predicate: Transtube® MW176
& variants (K872213)		
				MW176S & variants (K103805)				
				Modified				
	Similarities							
Intended Use			Transport medium is Liquid
Amies.			Same		
Test Method			The device is used to collect a
specimen from patient for
transport to a laboratory and
analysis by microbiological
methods.			Same		
Device Type			Same			Same		

[Table 2 on page 1]
Predicate: Transtube® MW176
& variants (K872213)

--- Page 2 ---
2
Differences
Medium is located at bottom of Medium is located within a
a small selfstanding polyurethane sponge
cylindrical tube at base of non-rolling
polypropylene tube
Swab is broken along shaft to Entire swab fits within swab
fit easily within the tube, with bell cap
tube of medium holder serving double function
as plug for tube
Unused tube of medium is Unused tube of medium fits is
closed with plastic closed with plastic
screw cap push fit plug
Used tube of medium is closed Used tube of medium is
by same plastic plugged by the bell cap
screw cap. holder on the swab
Medium easily removed from Long tube requires long pipette
tube by pipette for to remove used
multiple processing. medium for processing
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
The design control activities summary:
A risk assessment study was conducted to establish the performance of the Sigma
Transwab®. The Sigma Transwab Risk Analysis is based on EN ISO 14971:2007. This
risk analysis include; Energy hazards, Biological hazards, Potential Hazards of the
patient and End User, Environmental hazards, Hazards related to the use of the device,
Hazards arising from functional failure, maintenance and ageing. And Specific hazards
pertinent to new design.
Validation studies were conducted at one external site.
Studies were conducted to evaluate the performance characteristics of the Medical Wire S-
Transwab® in accordance with CLSI “Quality Control of Microbiological Transport Systems”;
Approved Standard M40-A. Tests were performed to simulate transport at fridge temperature
and room temperature. Data collected for the previously cleared device were used for the
assignment of shelf life of 24 months, with satisfactory recoveries being observed in multiple
batches for at least 30 months.
Quality control was performed using the CLSI Standard M40-A.

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Differences							
			Medium is located at bottom of
a small selfstanding
cylindrical tube
Swab is broken along shaft to
fit easily within the
tube of medium
Unused tube of medium is
closed with plastic
screw cap
Used tube of medium is closed
by same plastic
screw cap.
Medium easily removed from
tube by pipette for
multiple processing.			Medium is located within a
polyurethane sponge
at base of non-rolling
polypropylene tube
Entire swab fits within swab
tube, with bell cap
holder serving double function
as plug for tube
Unused tube of medium fits is
closed with plastic
push fit plug
Used tube of medium is
plugged by the bell cap
holder on the swab
Long tube requires long pipette
to remove used
medium for processing		

--- Page 3 ---
3
The Declaration of Conformity was signed by the individual responsible, that the
manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as
specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.