
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k103387
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for urinalysis for Ascorbic acid, Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone
(Acetoacetic acid), Specific Gravity, Blood, pH, Protein, Urobilinogen, Nitrite and
Leukocytes analytes.
D. Type of Test:
Not Applicable
E. Applicant:
Acon Laboratories, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Mission® Liquid Urine Control
Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine Control
Mission® Dry Strip Urine Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJW – Urinalysis Controls

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indications(s) for use:
The Mission® Liquid Urine Control, Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine Control and the
Mission® Dry Strip Urine Control are assayed urine controls intended for use in
validating the precision of visual and analyzer reading of urinalysis for one or more of the
following analytes: Ascorbic acid, Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone (Acetoacetic acid),
Specific Gravity, Blood, pH, Protein, Urobilinogen, Nitrite and Leukocytes. It is
intended for professional in vitro diagnostic use only.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The Mission® Liquid Urine Control, Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine Control, and the
Mission® Dry Strip Urine Control are for use with the Mission® Urinalysis Reagent Strips
and Mission U120 Urine Analyzer.
I. Device Description:
The Mission® Liquid Urine Control and Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine Control are
prepared from simulated human urine with purified chemicals, constituents of animal origin,
preservatives and stabilizers. The controls are available in two levels, ready to use liquid
format packaged in dropper bottles under the brand name Mission® Liquid Urine Control
and in diptube containers under the brand name Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine Control.
The results of the Mission® Liquid Urine Control and Mission® Liquid Diptube Urine
Control are compared to the lot-specific expected values listed in the package insert to
ensure the consistent performance of Mission® Urinalysis Reagent Strips and Mission®
Urine Analyzers.
The Mission® Dry Strip Urine Controls are firm plastic strips onto which reagent areas are
affixed. The negative level strips have five reagent areas containing one or more synthetic
ingredients. When placed in a measured quantity of distilled or deionized water, the
ingredients dissolve out of the reagent areas to produce a Level 1 Control Solution. The
Level 2 strips have six reagent areas affixed. The ingredients on the positive level strips
dissolve out to produce a Level 2 Control Solution. The results of the Mission® Dry Strip
Urine Control are compared to the lot-specific expected values listed in the package insert to
2

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
ensure the consistent performance of Mission® Urinalysis Reagent Strips and Mission®
Urine Analyzers.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-RadTM, Liquichek Urinalysis Control
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Chek-Stix® Control Strips for Urinalysis
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k070848 (Bio-Rad Liquichek Urinalysis Control)
k931467 (Chek-Stix Control Strips for Urinalysis)
3. Comparison with predicate:
Reagent Similarities and Differences
Feature Candidate Device: Predicate Device: Bio-
Mission Liquid Urine RadTM Liquichek
Control; Mission Liquid Urinalysis Control
Diptube Urine Control (k070848)
(k103387)
Intended/Indications Same
For use as an assayed
for Use
quality control urine to
monitor the precision of
urinalysis test procedures
for the analytes listed in
the package insert.
Levels 2 Same
Form Liquid Same
Analytes Glucose, Bilirubin, Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone
Ketone (Acetoacetic (Acetoacetic acid), Specific
acid), Specific Gravity, Gravity, Blood, pH,
Blood, pH, Protein, Protein, Urobilinogen,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite, Nitrite, Leukocytes,
Leukocytes, and Ascorbic Creatinine, Microalbumin,
Acid Microscopic (RBC, WBC,
Crystals), Osmolality,
Pregnancy (hCG), Protein-
to-Creatine Ratio
Storage 2 to 8°C Same
Matrix Liquid Matrix Solution Human Urine
Open Vial 24 months at 2-8°C 30 months at 2-8°C
30 Days at 15-30°C 30 Days at 18-25°C
Packaging Dropper, diptube Dropper
Configuration
Shelf Life 24 months at 2-8°C 30 months at 2-8°C
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Reagent Similarities and Differences				
Feature		Candidate Device:		Predicate Device: Bio-
RadTM Liquichek
Urinalysis Control
(k070848)
		Mission Liquid Urine		
		Control; Mission Liquid		
		Diptube Urine Control		
		(k103387)		
Intended/Indications
for Use	For use as an assayed
quality control urine to
monitor the precision of
urinalysis test procedures
for the analytes listed in
the package insert.			Same
Levels	2			Same
Form	Liquid			Same
Analytes	Glucose, Bilirubin,
Ketone (Acetoacetic
acid), Specific Gravity,
Blood, pH, Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocytes, and Ascorbic
Acid			Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone
(Acetoacetic acid), Specific
Gravity, Blood, pH,
Protein, Urobilinogen,
Nitrite, Leukocytes,
Creatinine, Microalbumin,
Microscopic (RBC, WBC,
Crystals), Osmolality,
Pregnancy (hCG), Protein-
to-Creatine Ratio
Storage	2 to 8°C			Same
Matrix	Liquid Matrix Solution			Human Urine
Open Vial	24 months at 2-8°C
30 Days at 15-30°C			30 months at 2-8°C
30 Days at 18-25°C
Packaging
Configuration	Dropper, diptube			Dropper
Shelf Life	24 months at 2-8°C			30 months at 2-8°C

[Table 2 on page 3]
Predicate Device: Bio-
RadTM Liquichek
Urinalysis Control
(k070848)

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
Reagent Similarities and Differences
Feature Candidate Device: Mission Dry Predicate Device:
Strip Urine Control (k103387) Siemens Healthcare
Diagnostics Chek-
Stix Control Strips
for Urinalysis
(k931467)
Intended/Indications
For use as an assayed quality
Same
for Use
control urine to monitor the
precision of urinalysis test
procedures for the analytes listed
in the package insert.
Levels 2 Same
Form Dry Strip Same
Analytes Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone Same
(Acetoacetic acid), Specific
Gravity, Blood, pH, Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocytes, and Ascorbic Acid
Maximum Tests Per 12 Same
Unit
Incubation Time 30 minutes Same
Storage 2-30°C 15-30°C
Open Vial 3 months at 2-30°C 18 months at 15-
30°C
Shelf Life 24 months at 2-30°C 18 months at 15-30°C
Stability after 8 hours for all parameters 8 hours for all
Reconstitution parameters except 3
hours for bilirubin
K. Standard/ Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
• FDA Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Materials.
L. Test Principle:
Not Applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Reagent Similarities and Differences				
Feature	Candidate Device: Mission Dry
Strip Urine Control (k103387)		Predicate Device:	
			Siemens Healthcare	
			Diagnostics Chek-	
			Stix Control Strips	
			for Urinalysis	
			(k931467)	
Intended/Indications
for Use	For use as an assayed quality
control urine to monitor the
precision of urinalysis test
procedures for the analytes listed
in the package insert.	Same		
Levels	2	Same		
Form	Dry Strip	Same		
Analytes	Glucose, Bilirubin, Ketone
(Acetoacetic acid), Specific
Gravity, Blood, pH, Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocytes, and Ascorbic Acid	Same		
Maximum Tests Per
Unit	12	Same		
Incubation Time	30 minutes	Same		
Storage	2-30°C	15-30°C		
Open Vial	3 months at 2-30°C	18 months at 15-
30°C		
Shelf Life	24 months at 2-30°C	18 months at 15-30°C		
Stability after
Reconstitution	8 hours for all parameters	8 hours for all
parameters except 3
hours for bilirubin		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Candidate Device: Mission Dry
Strip Urine Control (k103387)

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
Not Applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
None was provided.
Stability:
Accelerated stability studies were performed by placing three lots of Level 1 and 2
dropper and diptube urine controls packaged in dropper and diptube configuration at
37°C for 20 days to simulate a 24-month shelf life at 2-8°C. The urine controls were
read visually and tested on the Mission U120 Urine analyzer using three replicates.
The results indicated that they were within the acceptance criteria ranges for Level 1
and Level 2. Real time stability studies to confirm the 24 month shelf-life are ongoing
at 2-8°C.
Accelerated open stability studies were performed using three lots of dropper and
diptube urine controls at 37°C and at room temperature (15-30°C) for 20 days. The
controls were tested on the Mission Urinalysis Reagent Strips and read visually and
tested on the Mission U120 Urine analyzer. The results indicated that the Level 1 and
Level 2 controls were within the acceptance criteria. Real time studies are ongoing to
support the 24 month storage time at 2-8°C.
The accelerated stability study for the Mission Dry Strip Urine Controls was
performed by placing three lots of Level 1 and Level 2 urine controls at 45°C for 80
days and 37°C for 200 days. They were then tested on the Mission Urinalysis Reagent
Strips and read visually and tested on the Mission U120 Urine Analyzer. All controls
were within the established acceptance criteria and the shelf life was determined to be
24 months at 2-30°C. Real time stability studies are ongoing to support the 24 month
storage time at 2-30°C.
Real time open stability studies were performed using three lots of Level 1 and Level
2 Dry Strip Urine Control at 30°C for three months. Strips were tested on the Mission
Urinalysis Reagent Strips and read visually and tested on the Mission U120 Urine
Analyzer. All controls were within the established acceptance criteria. Real time
stability studies are ongoing to support the 24 month storage time at 2-30°C.
Stability after reconstitution for the Dry Strip Controls was done by reconstituting
three lots of Level 1 and Level 2 controls according to the package insert. The strips
were initially tested, and then placed at 2-8°C, 25°C, and 37°C for 2, 4, 6, 8, and 9
hours. The solutions were allowed to equilibrate to room temperature and then
retested on the Mission Urinalysis Reagent Strips and read visually and tested on the
Mission U120 Urine Analyzer. All controls were within the established acceptance
criteria. Stability after reconstitution for the Dry Strip Controls was set to be 8 hours
at 2-37°C.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
Value Assignment
Control value assignment for the Mission Liquid Urine Control, Mission Liquid
Diptube Urine Control and Mission Dry Strip was done by testing Level 1 and Level
2 using the Mission Urinalysis Reagent Strips read visually and tested on the Mission
U120 Urine analyzer. Three lots of strips and three analyzers were tested for three
consecutive days by three operators. All results for level 1 were negative and all
results for level 2 showed positive results.
Matrix Effects
The sponsor performed spiking studies to evaluate matrix effects of the Mission
Liquid Urine Control, Mission Liquid Diptube Urine Control and Mission Dry Strip
urine controls compared to human urine. Matrix 1, Matrix 2, and negative human
urine were spiked with zero, low and high level concentrations of analyte and
measured in triplicate using three lots of Mission Urinalysis Reagent Strip and tested
on the Mission U120 Urine Analyzer. The following analytes were studied for matrix
effects: leukocytes, nitrite, protein, glucose, ketones, urobilinogen, bilirubin, blood,
and ascorbic acid. All results showed that Matrix 1 and 2 of the Mission Liquid Urine
Control, Mission Liquid Diptube Urine Control, and the Mission Dry Strip Urine
Control met acceptance criteria and perform similarly to negative human urine pools
when spiked with various analytes across the measurement range of the Mission
Urinalysis Reagent Strips.
Temperature and humidity studies found that the Mission Liquid Urine Control,
Mission Liquid Diptube Urine Control and Mission Dry Strip Urine Control can
provide expected results when tested between 2-55°C and up to a 24 hour exposure to
humidity conditions ranging from 5-95% relative humidity. Additionally, lighting
studies showed that Mission Liquid Urine Control, Mission Liquid Diptube Urine
Control and Mission Dry Strip Urine Control can provide expected results when
tested under white light (fluorescent), yellow light (sodium vapor) and no light for
Levels 1 and 2.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
6

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range
Specific ranges for each analyte/methodology are listed in the package insert.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7