
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k103115
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for diabetes data management software accessory for use with compatible cleared
Prodigy (k060467) and Prodigy Voice (k073118) Blood Glucose Meter.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Prodigy Diabetes Care, LLC. Prodigy Diabetes Management Software
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Prodigy® Diabetes Management Software allows the user an additional
method of tracking their blood glucose level. The software allows for data
transfer from a Prodigy Blood Glucose Monitor via a USB cable. The
Prodigy® Diabetes Management Software is designed to operate on the
patient's PC with Microsoft SQL Server 2005 or later operating system.
Prodigy® Diabetes Care LLC website will provide a link to download the
Microsoft SQL Server 2005.
2. Principles of Operation:
Prodigy Diabetes Management Software is an accessory to compatible
Prodigy meters, which use specific test principles.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?:
Yes __X__ or No ______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?:
Yes ______ or No _ X ___
4. Specimen Identification:
Meter controlled download to data manager

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable
6. Calibration:
Not Applicable
7. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X___ or No ______
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation Section:
21CFR §862.1345 -Glucose test system.
21CFR §862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I respectively
3. Product Code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over the Counter
JQP - Calculator/Data Processing Module, for Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Prodigy® Diabetes Management Software is intended for use as a data
management tool for acceptance, transfer, display, storage, processing (e.g.
averaging), reporting and printing of patient blood glucose monitoring data.
The device is intended for use with the Prodigy® Blood Glucose Monitoring
Systems only.
2. Special Condition for use Statement(s):
Over the Counter (OTC) use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
Becton Dickinson, BD™ Diabetes Software
k023219
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Parameters Prodigy Diabetes Becton Dickinson Diabetes
Management Software Software
510(k) Number: k103115 k023219
Indications for Use The Prodigy® Diabetes Same
Management Software is
indicated for use as a data
management tool for the
acceptance, transfer,
display, storage, processing
(e.g., averaging). Reporting,
and printing of patient blood
glucose monitoring data.
Compatibility for use with the use with the BD Blood
Prodigy Blood Glucose Glucose Monitoring
Monitoring Systems only. Systems only.
Download blood glucose Yes Yes
meter readings via USB
interface cable
Electronic Log Book Yes Yes
Create User Profile Yes Yes
Create reports
Create trending graphs Yes Yes
Option for printing Yes. Yes
reports
Features of the Software
System
Set Target -target blood glucose Yes Yes
range
Average reading for each Yes Yes
meal over the past several weeks
Over the Counter Yes Yes
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 14971:2007, Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical devices

[Table 1 on page 3]
Parameters				Prodigy Diabetes			Becton Dickinson Diabetes	
				Management Software			Software	
	510(k) Number:			k103115			k023219	
Indications for Use			The Prodigy® Diabetes
Management Software is
indicated for use as a data
management tool for the
acceptance, transfer,
display, storage, processing
(e.g., averaging). Reporting,
and printing of patient blood
glucose monitoring data.			Same		
Compatibility			for use with the
Prodigy Blood Glucose
Monitoring Systems only.			use with the BD Blood
Glucose Monitoring
Systems only.		
Download blood glucose
meter readings via USB
interface cable			Yes			Yes		
Electronic Log Book			Yes			Yes		
Create User Profile			Yes			Yes		
Create reports								
Create trending graphs			Yes			Yes		
Option for printing
reports			Yes.			Yes		
Features of the Software
System								
Set Target -target blood glucose
range			Yes			Yes		
Average reading for each
meal over the past several weeks			Yes			Yes		
Over the Counter			Yes			Yes		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not Applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
c. Linearity:
Not Applicable
d. Carryover:
Not Applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not Applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
A Human Factors study of 20 participants was performed to verify ease of
use, label comprehension meter data transfer in the hands of lay users.
Additionally, all meters were bench tested to verify data transfer
compatibly and accuracy utilizing full memory capacity.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.