
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k103099
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for HbA1c
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
PreciControl HbA1c norm and PreciControl HbA1c path
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, reserved 21 CFR 862.1660, Clinical Chemistry
single (specified) (75)
analyte controls
(assayed and
unassayed)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJX			Class I, reserved			21 CFR 862.1660,
single (specified)
analyte controls
(assayed and
unassayed)			Clinical Chemistry
(75)		

--- Page 2 ---
PreciControl HbA1c norm and path are for use in quality control by monitoring
accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the value
sheets.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
COBAS INTEGRA and cobas c Systems analyzers: Integra 400, Integra 800,
cobas c 111, c311, c501, and c 502.
I. Device Description:
PreciControl HbA1c is a quality control with two levels; one level represents HbA1c
concentrations in the normal range and one in the pathological range. The two levels
are sold separately as PreciControl HbA1c norm and PreciControl HbA1c path. They
are liquid, ready-to-use, single-analyte controls based on hemolyzed human blood
that contains the component HbA1c. Concentrations are batch-specific and
adjustable to ensure that their levels fall in the appropriate ranges. The exact values
are provided in the batch-specific value sheets. They are for use with COBAS
INTEGRA and cobas c Systems analyzers.
Reagents – working solutions
Reactive components in the liquid controls:
Hemolyzed human blood, in vitro glycated HbA1c
The human blood products used in the manufacture of these quality control materials
has been tested using FDA approved methods and found to be non-reactive for
HBsAg and antibodies to HCV and HIV-1/2. The testing methods applied were
FDA-approved or cleared in compliance with the European Directive 98/79/EC,
Annex II, List A.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
Roche Diagnostics HbA1c Control N and HbA1c Control P
Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k072714
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Comparison with predicate:
Feature Candidate Device: Predicate Device: HbA1c
PreciControl HbA1c Control N/HbA1c Control
norm/PreciControl P
HbA1c path
Intended For use in quality control Same
Use/ by monitoring accuracy and
Indications precision for the
for Use quantitative methods as
specified in the value
sheets.
Format Liquid Lyophilized
Reagent Matrix Matrix
Composition
The controls are based on Same
hemolyzed human blood.
Components
Components
The glycated HbA1c is
HbA1c is isolated from a isolated from a diabetic
normal patient population patient population.
then glycated in vitro.
Stability Unopened Unopened
2-8ºC until expiration Same
Stability after opening Stability after reconstitution
2-8ºC for 28 days 2-8ºC for 4 weeks
(-15)-(-25)ºC for 12 weeks (-15)-(-25)ºC for 3 months
(freeze only once) (only freeze once in
aliquots of no less than 0.1
mL)
Traceability Traceable to IFCC Same
standards
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Feature	Candidate Device:
PreciControl HbA1c
norm/PreciControl
HbA1c path	Predicate Device: HbA1c
Control N/HbA1c Control
P
Intended
Use/
Indications
for Use	For use in quality control
by monitoring accuracy and
precision for the
quantitative methods as
specified in the value
sheets.	Same
Format	Liquid	Lyophilized
Reagent
Composition	Matrix
The controls are based on
hemolyzed human blood.
Components
HbA1c is isolated from a
normal patient population
then glycated in vitro.	Matrix
Same
Components
The glycated HbA1c is
isolated from a diabetic
patient population.
Stability	Unopened
2-8ºC until expiration
Stability after opening
2-8ºC for 28 days
(-15)-(-25)ºC for 12 weeks
(freeze only once)	Unopened
Same
Stability after reconstitution
2-8ºC for 4 weeks
(-15)-(-25)ºC for 3 months
(only freeze once in
aliquots of no less than 0.1
mL)
Traceability	Traceable to IFCC
standards	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment:
The assigned values for PreciControl HbA1c norm and path are determined
using the hemolysate and whole blood applications of the Roche Tinaquant
Hemoglobin A1c Gen 2 and Gen 3 assays which are traceable to IFCC and
transferrable to results traceable by calculation (NGSP = [0.09148 * IFCC] +
2.152) to DCCT/NGSP.
For lot-specific value assignment, each level of quality control is tested in
singlicate in at least three separate runs on at least three separate master
analyzers (Integra 800 and cobas c 501 analyzers). All master analyzers used
in the value assignment process were calibrated using a master calibrator. The
assigned target value of each control level is defined as the mean of all the
runs for each assay and analyzer. The corresponding control range is
calculated as the target value ± 3 standard deviations (with the standard
deviation being the value obtained from several target value determinations).
Stability:
Closed Vial Stability (Real-time/ shelf-life stability)
Unopened vials of PreciControl norm and path stored at 2 to 8º C (test
material) were tested against unopened vials of PreciControl norm and path
stored at -80ºC (reference material). Each material was tested in triplicate
after timepoints of 0, 12, 18, 20, and 21 months. Percent recoveries at each
timepoint were within 10% of the reference material concentration. The
unopened control vials are stable until the stated expiration date (15 months)
printed on the vials when stored at 2-8ºC.
Opened Vial Stability
4

--- Page 5 ---
Opened and subsequently closed vials of PreciControl norm and path stored at
2-8ºC and at -15ºC to -25ºC were tested against unopened vials of
PreciControl norm and path stored at -80ºC (reference material). Each
material was tested in triplicate after timepoints stated in the stability protocol.
Percent recoveries of each material was within 10% of the reference material
concentration. Data supports the package insert’s open vial stability claim of
28 days when stored at 2-8ºC or 12 weeks at -15ºC - (-25)ºC (when frozen
once).
d. Detection limit:
Not Applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not Applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values for each analyzer are presented in the labeling.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6