
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k103601
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for Free T3 and Free T4
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Aalto Scientific, Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Audit MicroCV™ FreeT4/FreeT3 Linearity Set
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR 862.1660, Quality control material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY, multi-analyte controls, all kinds
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity Set consists of five levels of
human and bovine albumin based matrix. Each level contains the following
analytes: Free T4 and Free T3. The five levels demonstrate a linear relationship to
each other for their respective analytes, reagents, and instruments.
This product may also be used as a quality control material for these analytes.
When used for quality control purposes, it is recommended that each laboratory
establish its own means and acceptable ranges and use the values provided only as
guides. The product is intended for use with quantitative assays on automatic
analyzers. The Audit™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity Set is “For In Vitro
Diagnostic Use Only”.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Performance testing was conducted on the Biomerieux V12 Compact Mini-Vidas
Immunoassay Analyzer (for Free T4) and the Siemens Centaur XP (for Free T3)
I. Device Description:
The Audit™ MicroCV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity Set is a 5 level quality control
solution set containing Free T4 / Free T3 analytes as the messurand. The base matrix
is a human and bovine based serum albumin and the free T4 and free T3 in each
control are the endogenous levels found in the human and bovine serum used to make
each control. The linearity set is used to confirm the proper calibration, linear
operating range, and reportable range of Free T4 / Free T3 analytes. Level A is near
the lower limit level and Level E has concentrations near the upper limit of
instruments. Levels B – D are related by linear dilution of Level A and Level E.
All human source materials used to produce this product have been tested for HbsAg,
anti-HCV, HIV-1 and HIV-2 and found to be non-reactive by FDA cleared/approved
tests.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
2

--- Page 3 ---
1. Predicate device name(s):
Audit™ MicroCV™ Immunoassay Linearity Set
2. Predicate K number(s):
k062668
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Indications for The Audit™ MicroCV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Same
Use Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of human based serum. It
is intended to simulate human patient serum
samples to detect systematic analytical
deviations of laboratory testing procedures
Number of levels 5 Same
per set
Kit Contents 5 x 5 mL Same
Matrix Human and Bovine Albumin Serum Same
Form Lyophilized Same
Storage 2 – 8 ºC for 24 months Same
Open Bottle 2 – 8 ºC for 5 days Same
Stability
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analytes Free T4 and Cortisol. Digoxin, Estradiol, Ferritin, Folate,
Free T3 Free T4, FSH, hCG, LH, Progesterone,
Prolactin, Testosterone, Total PSA, Total T3,
Total T4, TSH, and Vitamin B12
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP6-A: evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures: A
Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indications for
Use			The Audit™ MicroCV™ Free T4 / Free T3
Linearity Set is assayed quality control
material consisting of human based serum. It
is intended to simulate human patient serum
samples to detect systematic analytical
deviations of laboratory testing procedures			Same		
Number of levels
per set			5			Same		
Kit Contents			5 x 5 mL			Same		
Matrix			Human and Bovine Albumin Serum			Same		
Form			Lyophilized			Same		
Storage			2 – 8 ºC for 24 months			Same		
Open Bottle
Stability			2 – 8 ºC for 5 days			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analytes			Free T4 and
Free T3			Cortisol. Digoxin, Estradiol, Ferritin, Folate,
Free T4, FSH, hCG, LH, Progesterone,
Prolactin, Testosterone, Total PSA, Total T3,
Total T4, TSH, and Vitamin B12		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The Audit™ Micro CV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity Set is prepared such
that a linear relationship exists among all five levels (Levels A through E).
Level A has a concentration near the lower limit level and Level E has
concentrations near the upper limit level of instruments. Levels B-D are
related by linear dilution of Level A and Level E using dilution schemes based
on guidelines provided by CLSI EP6-A.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability and Value Assignment
All components of the Audit™ Micro CV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity
Set are obtained from a commercial vendor and inspected in-house.
Value assignment for each analyte was conducted by repeat analyses on the
Biomerieux Mini-Vidas analyzer (Free T4) or the Siemens Centaur analyzer
(Free T3). All control material levels for both analytes were measured 4 times
(1 lot) and the mean values were used to assign the target concentration
values for each of the five linearity set levels. The target ranges were
calculated as ± 15% of the target value. The mean concentration values of
each level were plotted (concentration value vs. assigned level) and a linear
regression value obtained. If the five-point linear regression R2 value was
greater that 0.95 and if the plots are linear, the product passed the linearity
test. Values may change depending on lot, instrumentation, methodology, and
assay temperature. Lot-specific expected value ranges are provided in the
package insert. Expected value ranges for each level of the linearity set are
summarized in the table below.
Target Values:
Analyte Units A B C D E
Free T4 pmol/L < 10 30 50 70 90
Free T3 pg/mL < 5 13.75 17.5 21.25 25
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Analyte	Units	A	B	C	D	E
Free T4	pmol/L	< 10	30	50	70	90
Free T3	pg/mL	< 5	13.75	17.5	21.25	25

--- Page 5 ---
Stability
Stability studies have been performed to determine the open vial stability
and shelf life for the Audit™ MicroCV™ Free T4 / Free T3 Linearity Set.
Real time studies are ongoing to support the shelf life of this product.
Stability claims meet the stated acceptance criteria of recovery from
unstressed material values of ± 15%, and are as follows:
Open Vial Stability: Once a vial has been reconstituted, all analytes will
be stable for 5 days when stored tightly capped at 2-8 C.
Shelf Life: 24 months at 2 - 8º C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected values are provided in the labeling for each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6