
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k103548
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Calibration materials for total IgE assay
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator 80
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1150, Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JIT – Calibrator, Secondary
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use in calibrating the ADVIA Centaur® Total IgE (tIgE)
quantitative assay on the ADVIA Centaur system.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use Only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ADVIA Centaur
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator 80 is a 2 level human IgE in equine serum
containing detergents and preservatives. Two vials of the lyophilized low
calibrator and two levels of lyophilized high calibrator are included. All human
source materials used in the manufacture of this product was tested by FDA-
approved methods and found nonreactive for hepatitis B surface antigen
(HBsAg), antibody to hepatitis C (HCV), and antibody to HIV-1/2. The
Calibrators 80 target and acceptance ranges are summarized in the table below:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Analyte Level Calibrator Target Acceptance Range
(IU/mL) (IU/mL)
tIgE Level 1 (Low) 35 28.5 - 39.9
Lvel 2 (High) 1825 1425 - 2205
Each Calibrator Kit includes a Calibrator Assigned Value Card that provides the
calibrator values for each analyte in the low and high calibrators. Customers can
use the barcode scanner or the keyboard to enter the calibrator values on to the
ADVIA Centaur analyzer.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics (formerly Ciba Corning Diagnostics Corp.) ACS
Calibrator B
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k920372
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item ADVIA Centaur® ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
Calibrator 80 (Predicate Device)
(New Device)
Intended Use For in vitro diagnostic use in For in vitro diagnostic use in
calibrating the ADVIA calibrating the following assays using
Centaur® Total IgE (tIgE) ADVIA Centaur® or ACIS:180®
assay on the ADVIA Centaur Systems: Digoxin; FSH; Total IgE;
system. LH, LH2, Prolactin; Total hCG; TSH.
Number of 2 Same
Levels
Form Lypholized Same
Matrix Equine serum Same
Total IgE Target Low Calibrator = 35 IU/mL Same
Concentrations High Calibrator = 1825
IU/mL
Storage 2 - 8°C Same
Temperature
Special ADVIA Centaur ADVIA Centaur® or ACIS:180®
instruments Systems
Differences
Item ADVIA Centaur® ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
Calibrator 80 (Predicate Device)
(New Device)
Analytes Single Analyte: Multi Analyte:
Total IgE (tIgE) Digoxin, FSH, Total IgE, LH LH2,
Prolactin, Total hCG, TSH
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Analyte	Level		Calibrator Target			Acceptance Range	
			(IU/mL)			(IU/mL)	
tIgE	Level 1 (Low)	35			28.5 - 39.9		
	Lvel 2 (High)	1825			1425 - 2205		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Similarities								
Item				ADVIA Centaur®		ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
(Predicate Device)		
				Calibrator 80				
				(New Device)				
Intended Use				For in vitro diagnostic use in			For in vitro diagnostic use in	
				calibrating the ADVIA			calibrating the following assays using	
				Centaur® Total IgE (tIgE)			ADVIA Centaur® or ACIS:180®	
				assay on the ADVIA Centaur			Systems: Digoxin; FSH; Total IgE;	
				system.			LH, LH2, Prolactin; Total hCG; TSH.	
	Number of		2	2		Same	Same	
	Levels							
	Form			Lypholized			Same	
	Matrix			Equine serum			Same	
Total IgE Target
Concentrations	Total IgE Target			Low Calibrator = 35 IU/mL		Same	Same	
	Concentrations			High Calibrator = 1825				
				IU/mL				
	Storage		2 - 8°C	2 - 8°C		Same		
	Temperature							
	Special		ADVIA Centaur				ADVIA Centaur® or ACIS:180®	
	instruments						Systems	
Differences	Differences							
Item				ADVIA Centaur®		ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
(Predicate Device)		
				Calibrator 80				
				(New Device)				
Analytes			Single Analyte:
Total IgE (tIgE)	Single Analyte:			Multi Analyte:	
				Total IgE (tIgE)			Digoxin, FSH, Total IgE, LH LH2,	
							Prolactin, Total hCG, TSH	

[Table 3 on page 2]
ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
(Predicate Device)

[Table 4 on page 2]
ADVIA Centaur® Calibrator B
(Predicate Device)

--- Page 3 ---
Ingredients After reconstitution, low or After reconstitution, low or high
high levels of human IgE in levels of the analytes listed in
equine serum, detergents and Intended Use in equine serum
preservatives with preservatives and protein
stabilizers
Stability Unopened – until expiration Unopened – until expiration date on
date on the vial label the vial label
Reconstituted - 60 days Reconstituted - 28 days
On-board - 8 hours On-board - 4 hours
Fill Volume 2 mL/vial 5 mL/vial
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
ADVIA Centaur Calibrator 80 is traceable to the WHO international standard
75/502. The values for Calibrator 80 are read off the set of internal standards
which is comprised of seven levels and span the range of the assay. These
internal Total IgE standards are traceable to WHO material 75/502.
Value Assignment:
Values are assigned using a set of seven internal standards. Calibrator values
are assigned to these internal standards and are verified with the WHO
international standard 75/502.
Value Assignment of ADVIA Centaur Calibrator 80 is performed using one
ADVIA Centaur Total IgE reagent lot, 20 replicates, and a set of internal
standards on one ADVIA Centaur analyzer according to Siemens Value
Assignment Procedure. This testing is done in a single day with one operator.
The tIgE assay utilizes a 2-Point calibration system. Calibrator values are
assigned using master curve standards which span the entire range of the
assay. Two sets of controls are run to verify the validity of the runs. In order
to verify that values are correct, the calibrators are substituted for Master
Curve standards and known controls are calculated off the newly assigned
calibrators. Control values are then compared to specifications to ensure that
the values of the new 2-Point calibrators are correctly assigned. The Total IgE
Calibrators have expected values of 35 and 1825 IU/mL.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Ingredients				After reconstitution, low or			After reconstitution, low or high	
				high levels of human IgE in			levels of the analytes listed in	
				equine serum, detergents and			Intended Use in equine serum	
				preservatives			with preservatives and protein	
							stabilizers	
Stability				Unopened – until expiration			Unopened – until expiration date on	
				date on the vial label			the vial label	
				Reconstituted - 60 days			Reconstituted - 28 days	
				On-board - 8 hours			On-board - 4 hours	
	Fill Volume			2 mL/vial			5 mL/vial	

--- Page 4 ---
Stability:
Real Time, accelerated, open vial) and on board stability studies were carried
out on the ADVIA Centaur. Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria
were described and found to be adequate.
Open vial stability:
The open-vial (reconstituted) claim is 60 days at 2-8°C.
On Board Stability:
The On-System stability claim is onboard 8-hour at room temperature.
Real time/Closed Vial stability:
The Shelf-life stability is 16 months refrigerated (2-8oC); however it will be
updated as additional real time stability data becomes available. Product label
will state “Lyophilized–until the expiration date on the vial label”.
Dilution study:
Not applicable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4