
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K103673
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for the detection of Giardia and
Cryptosporidium antigens in human stool
C. Measurand:
Giardia and Cryptosporidium antigens
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative membrane enzyme immunoassay
E. Applicant:
TechLab® Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK™ test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Part 866.3220 Entamoeba histolytica Serological Reagents
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
MHJ - Cryptosporidium spp.
MHI – Giardia spp.
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83, Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test is a rapid membrane
enzyme immunoassay for the simultaneous qualitative detection and
differentiation of Giardia cyst antigen and Cryptosporidium oocyst antigen in a
single test device. It is intended for use with human fecal specimens from patients
with gastrointestinal symptoms to aid in the diagnosis of Giardia and/or
Cryptosporidium gastrointestinal infection. As with other Giardia and/or
Cryptosporidium tests, results should be considered in conjunction with the
patient history.
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test is a rapid membrane
enzyme immunoassay for the simultaneous qualitative detection and
differentiation of Giardia cyst antigen and Cryptosporidium oocyst antigen in a
single test device. It is intended for use with human fecal specimens from patients
with gastrointestinal symptoms to aid in the diagnosis of Giardia and/or
Cryptosporidium gastrointestinal infection. As with other Giardia and/or
Cryptosporidium tests, results should be considered in conjunction with the
patient history.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK™ test device contains 25
pouches, each containing a membrane filter pad. Each device has a Reaction Window
with three vertical lines of immobilized antibodies. The Giardia test line (“Giar”)
contains mouse monoclonal antibodies against Giardia. The Crypto test line (“Cryp”)
contains mouse monoclonal antibodies against Cryptosporidium. The control line
(“C”) is a dotted line that contains anti-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) antibodies. The
2

--- Page 3 ---
Conjugate consists of polyclonal antibodies coupled to horseradish peroxidase. The
antigen-antibody-conjugate complexes migrate through a filter pad to a membrane
where they are captured by the immobilized Giardia and/or Cryptosporidium-specific
antibodies in the test lines. After addition of substrate and proper incubation, the
reaction is examined visually for the appearance of a vertical blue line on either side
of the Reaction Window. A blue line indicates a positive test. A positive “control”
reaction, indicated by a vertical dotted blue line under the “C” portion of the Reaction
Window, confirms that the test is working properly and the results are valid.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
GIARDIA II
CRYPTOSPORIDIUM II
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K033274
K052932
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate 1 Predicate 2
Detection of Giardia Detection of Giardia Detection of
Intended cyst and cyst antigen Cryptosporidium
Use Cryptosporidium oocyst antigen
oocyst antigen
Enzyme Enzyme Immunoassay Enzyme Immunoassay
Technology
Immunoassay
Antibody Monoclonal/Polyclon Monoclonal/Polyclonal Monoclonal/Polyclonal
Format al
Human Fecal Human Fecal Human Fecal
Specimen Specimens- fresh, Specimens- fresh, Specimens- fresh,
Types frozen, or preserved in frozen, or preserved in frozen, or preserved in
10% Formalin or SAF 10% Formalin or SAF 10% Formalin or SAF
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities											
	Item			Device			Predicate 1			Predicate 2	
Intended
Use			Detection of Giardia
cyst and
Cryptosporidium
oocyst antigen			Detection of Giardia
cyst antigen			Detection of
Cryptosporidium
oocyst antigen		
Technology			Enzyme
Immunoassay			Enzyme Immunoassay			Enzyme Immunoassay		
Antibody
Format			Monoclonal/Polyclon
al			Monoclonal/Polyclonal			Monoclonal/Polyclonal		
Specimen
Types			Human Fecal
Specimens- fresh,
frozen, or preserved in
10% Formalin or SAF			Human Fecal
Specimens- fresh,
frozen, or preserved in
10% Formalin or SAF			Human Fecal
Specimens- fresh,
frozen, or preserved in
10% Formalin or SAF		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate 1 Predicate 2
Detection and Detection Giardia
differentiation of cyst antigen only Detection
Intended
Giardia cyst antigen Cryptosporidium
Use
and Cryptosporidium oocyst antigen only
oocyst antigen
Enzyme Immunoassay Enzyme Immunoassay
Membrane Enzyme
Technology – Microassay Plate – Microassay Plate
Immunoassay
ELISA ELISA
Amount of
25 µL – fresh 100 µL – fresh or 100 µL – fresh or
Specimen
preserved preserved
required 100 µL - preserved
Incubation 15 minutes 1 hour 1 hour
time
Time to
30 minutes 1 hour 45 minutes 1 hour 45 minutes
Result
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK™ test is a membrane enzyme
immunoassay that uses monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to cell-surface antigens
of the organisms. The polyclonal antibodies are coupled to horseradish peroxidase
which are contained in the diluent. Specific mouse monoclonal antibodies against
Giardia and Cryptosporidium antigens are bound on different location of the
membrane. A fecal specimen is added to the diluent and transferred to the sample
well and incubated. During the incubation, cyst and/or oocyst antigens in the sample
bind the antibody-peroxidase conjugates. The antigen-antibody-conjugate complexes
migrate through a filter pad to a membrane where they are captured by the
immobilized Giardia and/or Cryptosporidium-specific antibodies in the test lines.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A total of 22 fecal specimens were pre-characterized by commercially
available predicate devices. The samples included six Giardia-positive
specimens (three mid-range positives), six Cryptosporidium-positive
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences										
	Item			Device		Predicate 1			Predicate 2	
Intended
Use			Detection and
differentiation of
Giardia cyst antigen
and Cryptosporidium
oocyst antigen			Detection Giardia
cyst antigen only		Detection
Cryptosporidium
oocyst antigen only		
Technology			Membrane Enzyme
Immunoassay			Enzyme Immunoassay
– Microassay Plate
ELISA		Enzyme Immunoassay
– Microassay Plate
ELISA		
Amount of
Specimen
required			25 µL – fresh
100 µL - preserved			100 µL – fresh or
preserved		100 µL – fresh or
preserved		
Incubation
time			15 minutes			1 hour		1 hour		
Time to
Result			30 minutes			1 hour 45 minutes		1 hour 45 minutes		

--- Page 5 ---
specimens (three low positives), and four Giardia/Cryptosporidium-positive
specimens (two of which were low Giardia-positives and two of which were
low Cryptosporidium-positives), and six specimens negative for both
parasites. All specimens were coded to prevent their identification during
testing. Testing was performed at three sites. The samples were tested, twice
a day over a 5-day period by multiple technicians at each site using two
different kit lots. A positive and negative control was run with each panel of
the masked samples. The results were consistent among the different
locations, and exhibited a correlation of 100%.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable.
d. Detection limit:
The analytical sensitivity of the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK
CHEK test was determined by spiking various dilutions of purified Giardia
cysts or Cryptosporidium oocysts into negative human stool. The cyst/oocyst
preparations were quantified using the reference assay of IFA microscopy.
Test results determined the limit of detection to be 6000 Giardia cysts per mL
(133 cysts/test) and 6000 Cryptosporidium oocysts/mL (133 cysts/test).
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross- Reactivity Study
No cross reactions were seen with the following organisms:
Aeromonas hydrophila, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus subtilis, Bacteroides fragilis,
Campylobacter coli, Campylobacter fetus, Campylobacter jejuni, Candida
albicans, Clostridium bifermentans, Clostridium difficile (strain 630),
Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, Escherichia coli 0157:H7,
Escherichia coli ETEC (enterotoxic), Escherichia coli EPEC
(enteropathogenic), Escherichia coli EIEC (enteroinvasive), Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Salmonella typhimurium, Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri,
Shigella sonnei, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus aureus (Cowan’s),
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Yersinia enterocolitica
Human Adenovirus 1 and 3, Adenovirus, Type 2, 5, 40 and 41, Human
Coxsackievirus B2, B3, and B4, Coxsackievirus B5, Human Coronavirus,
Echovirus 11, 18, 33, Human Echovirus 9, Human paraechovirus 1 (Echovirus
22), Enterovirus 68, 69, Human Enterovirus 70, 71, Human rotavirus
5

--- Page 6 ---
Additionally, the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK™ test was
tested using fecal specimens documented to be positive for other parasites by
microscopy; Ascaris lumbricoides eggs, Dientamoeba fragilis, Entamoeba
hartmanni, Blastocystis hominis, Diphyllobothrium latum eggs, Entamoeba
histolytica/E. dispar, Chilomastix mesnili, Endolimax nana, Hookworm eggs,
Cyclospora cayetanensis, Entamoeba coli, Iodamoeba butschlii, and Trichuris
trichiura eggs. No cross-reactivity was seen with the following organisms for
either the Giardia-portion or the Cryptosporidium-portion of the test.
Cross-reactivity to Astrovirus and Caliciviruses has not been evaluated.
The results obtained from the cross reactive study is acceptable.
Interference Study
The following substances had no effect on positive or negative test results
analyzed at the concentrations indicated: Hog gastric mucin (3.5% w/v),
Human blood (40% v/v), Barium sulfate (5% w/v), Imodium (5% v/v),
Kaopectate (5% v/v), Pepto-Bismol (5% v/v), Steric/Palmitic Acid (40% w/v),
Metronidazole (0.25% w/v), Vancomycin (0.25% w/v).
The results obtained from the interference study is acceptable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not Applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The performance of the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test
was evaluated at three geographically diverse sites. Two sites compared the
performance to commercially available ELISA (separate devices for Giardia
and Cryptosporidium). A total of 849 specimens were evaluated and included
349 fresh, 322 frozen, 36 preserved (formalin) and 142 preserved (SAF).
Two hundred and fifteen (215) specimens were positive for Giardia by
ELISA. The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test exhibited a
99.1% agreement for Giardia positive specimens, a 99.7% agreement for
Giardia negative specimens, with an overall agreement of 99.5%.
One hundred thirty one (131) specimens were positive for Cryptosporidium
by ELISA. The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test
exhibited a 99.2% agreement for Cryptosporidium positive specimens, 99.6%
agreement for Cryptosporidium negative specimens, and an overall
6

--- Page 7 ---
agreement of 99.5%.
The results obtained from the method comparison study are acceptable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
The performance of the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test
was evaluated at three geographically diverse sites. Two sites compared
performance to the reference microscopy/immunofluorescence (IFA). A total
of 791 were evaluated and included 220 fresh, 140 frozen, 216 preserved
(formalin) and 215 preserved (SAF).
One hundred eighty three (183) specimens were positive for Giardia by IFA.
The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test exhibited a
sensitivity of 98.9%, a specificity of 100%, and an overall correlation of
99.7% with microscopy.
One hundred forty (140) specimens were positive for Cryptosporidium by
IFA. The GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test exhibited a
sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 99.8%, and an overall correlation of
99.9% with Microscopy.
The results obtained from the clinical study appear to be acceptable.
Combined Results - Clinical Performance Comparing the Giardia Line of
the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK Test to Microscopy –
IFA
Microscopy - IFA Microscopy - IFA
N = 791
Giardia positive Giardia negative
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK 181 0
Giardia Line Positive
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK 2 608
Giardia Line Negative
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 98.9% 95.7 – 99.8%
Specificity 100% 99.2 – 100%
Correlation 99.7% 99.7 – 99.7%
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
	Microscopy - IFA	Microscopy - IFA
N = 791		
	Giardia positive	Giardia negative
		
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK
Giardia Line Positive	181	0
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK
Giardia Line Negative	2	608

[Table 2 on page 7]
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	98.9%	95.7 – 99.8%
Specificity	100%	99.2 – 100%
Correlation	99.7%	99.7 – 99.7%

--- Page 8 ---
Combined Results - Clinical Performance Comparing the
Cryptosporidium Line of the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK
CHEK Test to Microscopy – IFA
N = 791 Microscopy - IFA Crypto. positive Microscopy - IFA Crypto. negative
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK 140 1
Cryptosporidium Line Positive
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK 0 650
Cryptosporidium Line Negative
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 100% 96.7 – 100%
Specificity 99.8% 99.0 – 100%
Correlation 99.9% 100 – 100%
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M.3.a
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Normal healthy individuals should not be infected with Giardia or
Cryptosporidium and should test negative in the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK test. A positive test result in the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK test indicates that the person is shedding detectable amounts of
Giardia and/or Cryptosporidium antigen. The incidence of Giardia and
Cryptosporidium infection varies significantly between populations and
geographic regions. Children in daycare settings have exhibited higher rates of
infection with Giardia than the normal population. In addition, homosexual men
have shown higher rates of infection. In general, laboratory-confirmed incidence
of cryptosporidiosis in developed countries ranges from 1 to 2% overall with a
higher incidence in children.
Prospective studies to evaluate the GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK
test were conducted at an Asian hospital specializing in diarrheal diseases. The
studies included 129 freshly collected fecal specimens. A positive test result in the
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
		
N = 791	Microscopy - IFA Crypto. positive	Microscopy - IFA Crypto. negative
		
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK
Cryptosporidium Line Positive	140	1
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM
QUIK CHEK
Cryptosporidium Line Negative	0	650

[Table 2 on page 8]
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	100%	96.7 – 100%
Specificity	99.8%	99.0 – 100%
Correlation	99.9%	100 – 100%

--- Page 9 ---
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM QUIK CHEK test was obtained in 22.5% for
Giardia and in 5.4% for Cryptosporidium antigen.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
9