
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k110709
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for diabetes data management software accessory for use with
compatible glucose meters such as ARKRAY Glucocard Vital Blood Glucose Meter
(k091102).
C. Measurand:
Whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Diabetes data management system
E. Applicant:
ARKRAY Factory USA, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ARK Care™ Diabetes Management System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21CFR Sec.- 862.1345-Glucose test system.
21CFR Sec.-862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I, respectively
3. Product code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over the Counter
CGA - Glucose Oxidase, Glucose
JQP-Calculator/Data Processing Module, for Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ARKRAY Diabetes Management Software is an optional accessory for use
with compatible blood glucose meters, such as ARKRAY Glucocard Vital Blood
Glucose Meter with data management capabilities. The ARKRAY Diabetes
Management Software transfers data from the meter’s memory into a secured
sever for enhanced data management. ARKRAY ARK Care™ Diabetes

--- Page 2 ---
Management System is intended for use in home and clinical settings via the
internet to assist people with diabetes and their healthcare professionals in
uploading, storing, analyzing, and communicating about historical blood glucose
test results and other biological statistics to support improved diabetes
management.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over the Counter (OTC) use
4. Special instrument requirements:
ARKRAY Glucocard Vital Blood Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
The ARK Care Diabetes Management system serves as an interface between the
software in compatible glucose meters and a general purpose health management
database to assist in the review, analysis and evaluation of blood glucose test results.
ARK Care is a secure system designed for home use and professional healthcare
settings.
The purpose of the electronic diabetes management system is to help users and
healthcare teams manage blood glucose information to help with diabetes
management. After the user transmits and stores blood glucose data to the secure
database, the ARK Care system allows family members and/or healthcare
professionals to view and monitor the user's data and reports. Family and healthcare
team members must receive permission from the primary user and create a password
protected login before viewing data and allows for secure communications. The user
and approved healthcare team members can view the blood glucose data in different
formats such as logbooks, charts, and graphs. The data can be viewed through
selected time intervals and these intervals can be compared over time to track disease
management. The subject can also enter and track other health-related information
such as body weight, blood pressure, lab values, and exercise activities. Groups of
profiles can be queried for bulk reporting on data related to tracking and trending of
outcomes, supporting diabetes disease management in individuals and in managed
care organizations.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
MyCare Team, MCT Diabetes
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k073699
3. Comparison with predicate:
Device Characteristic New Device: ARK Care Diabetes Predicate: MCT Diabetes
Management
2 of 8

[Table 1 on page 2]
Device Characteristic	New Device: ARK Care Diabetes
Management	Predicate: MCT Diabetes

--- Page 3 ---
Device Characteristic New Device: ARK Care Diabetes Predicate: MCT Diabetes
Management
Indications for Use ARKRAY ARK Care Diabetes Same
Statement Management System™ is intended
for use in home and clinical
settings via the internet to assist
people with diabetes and their
healthcare professionals in
uploading, storing, analyzing, and
communicating about historical
blood glucose test results and other
biological statistics to support
diabetes management.
Intended Use Home use or Clinical Assist Same
diabetics, families, and
professionals in management of
blood glucose Support diabetes
management Single or multi-
patient use Same
Data Source Compile data from multiple Same
different brands of glucose meters
for display in one place on user's
personal computer
Software Use Single (individual) or multiple user Same
(clinical) settings
Use in Clinic Patient list available Same
Report types Logbook Readings Line Chart Same
Average Bar Chart Percentage Pie
Chart Percentage Reading by Time
of Day
Special Glucose Wide Range of Supported meters Same
Monitor Instrument are available; As additional
Requirements software protocols are obtained and
devices are validated, capabilities
will be broadened to include other
blood glucose meters.
User’s Personal Windows Vista (32 and 64 bit) Windows 98 Second Edition (SE),
Computer (PC) Windows XP-XP Home Edition & Windows 2000 and Windows XP
XP Professional (32 bit) Windows Home and Professional
7 (32 and 64 bit)
Requirements • 600 MHz Intel Pentium II or Same
equivalent
• Minimum 128MB RAM 100- Same
200MB RAM used during
installations and 100MB used
after installation.
3 of 8

[Table 1 on page 3]
Device Characteristic	New Device: ARK Care Diabetes
Management	Predicate: MCT Diabetes
Indications for Use
Statement	ARKRAY ARK Care Diabetes
Management System™ is intended
for use in home and clinical
settings via the internet to assist
people with diabetes and their
healthcare professionals in
uploading, storing, analyzing, and
communicating about historical
blood glucose test results and other
biological statistics to support
diabetes management.	Same
Intended Use	Home use or Clinical Assist
diabetics, families, and
professionals in management of
blood glucose Support diabetes
management Single or multi-
patient use Same	Same
Data Source	Compile data from multiple
different brands of glucose meters
for display in one place on user's
personal computer	Same
Software Use	Single (individual) or multiple user
(clinical) settings	Same
Use in Clinic	Patient list available	Same
Report types	Logbook Readings Line Chart
Average Bar Chart Percentage Pie
Chart Percentage Reading by Time
of Day	Same
Special Glucose
Monitor Instrument
Requirements	Wide Range of Supported meters
are available; As additional
software protocols are obtained and
devices are validated, capabilities
will be broadened to include other
blood glucose meters.	Same
User’s Personal
Computer (PC)	Windows Vista (32 and 64 bit)
Windows XP-XP Home Edition &
XP Professional (32 bit) Windows
7 (32 and 64 bit)	Windows 98 Second Edition (SE),
Windows 2000 and Windows XP
Home and Professional
Requirements	• 600 MHz Intel Pentium II or
equivalent
• Minimum 128MB RAM 100-
200MB RAM used during
installations and 100MB used
after installation.	Same
Same

--- Page 4 ---
Device Characteristic New Device: ARK Care Diabetes Predicate: MCT Diabetes
Management
• CD ROM Drive Same
• BGM Manufacturer’s required Same
cable.
• Installed from website Same
Technical Support Yes Same
User’s Manual Available on Internet while using Same
program (“Help System”) Hard
copy user manual available
Auto-detect COM Yes Same
port
Installation of Installed from internet link Same
program
Required data on Yes Same
patient entry includes
patient ID, name,
address, ect.
Physician Multiple individuals Same
Information
Diabetes educator Multiple individuals Same
information
Types of information Insulin list, medication list, Same
that can be manually exercise, blood pressure data,
entered laboratory results, meals
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
IS0l4971 - Medical Devices-Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
L. Test Principle:
ARK Care Diabetes Management software is an accessory to compatible meters,
which use specific test principles such as in the ARKRAY Glucocard Vital Blood
Glucose Meter (k091102)
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Presented in k091102
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Presented in k091102
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Presented in k091102
d. Detection limit:
Presented in k091102
e. Analytical specificity:
4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
Device Characteristic	New Device: ARK Care Diabetes
Management	Predicate: MCT Diabetes
	• CD ROM Drive
• BGM Manufacturer’s required
cable.
• Installed from website	Same
Same
Same
Technical Support	Yes	Same
User’s Manual	Available on Internet while using
program (“Help System”) Hard
copy user manual available	Same
Auto-detect COM
port	Yes	Same
Installation of
program	Installed from internet link	Same
Required data on
patient entry includes
patient ID, name,
address, ect.	Yes	Same
Physician
Information	Multiple individuals	Same
Diabetes educator
information	Multiple individuals	Same
Types of information
that can be manually
entered	Insulin list, medication list,
exercise, blood pressure data,
laboratory results, meals	Same

--- Page 5 ---
Presented in k091102
f. Assay cut-off:
Presented in k091102
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Presented in k091102
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Thirty eight (38) diabetic adult consumers and six (6) healthcare professionals
were recruited and screened for study inclusion criteria. Inclusion criteria for
participants included that the user was capable of using a computer
independently and had at minimum basic computer skills. Personal Users
must be a Type 1 or Type 2 diabetic who is actively testing their blood
glucose. Professional Users needed to have a degree in a healthcare field that
may require interaction with diabetic persons.
Users were given the use of a laptop with the ARK Care website open, a
preloaded meter with glucose and control solution values, the User Guide and
a set of user (Personal and Professional) instructions to complete study tasks.
Program evaluation was measured by completing ease of use and performance
questionnaires
The Personal User participants were asked to:
1. Enroll as a patient
2. Navigation Overview
3. Create a Care Team
4. Glucose Meter Upload
5. Manually add Medication, Lab results, Meals and Insulin using My Data
Logbooks
6. View Detail Readings chart in My Charts
7. View and Print Average Readings charts in My Charts
8. View Total View chart in My Charts
9. Sign Out of ARK Care site
10. Rate the program by completing questionnaires
The Professional participants were asked to:
1. Enroll from an email invitation
2. Register as a Care Team Member
5 of 8

--- Page 6 ---
3. From My Data -> Alerts view your team member’s information
4. Navigation overview
5. Display Blood Glucose Logbook
6. Display Medication Log
7. Display and Print Lab Test Results
8. Display Meal Log
9. Display Insulin Log
10. Display Total View interactive chart
11. Under My Information -> Notifications set to Daily updates and save
12. Sign Out of ARK Care site
13. Rate the program by completing questionnaires
The scores of “Ease of Use” and “Performance” questionnaires were both
over 99% passing. Sixty-eight percent (68%) of Personal Users would use this
software program to help manage their diabetes and one-hundred percent
(100%) of Professional Users would use this program to assist in managing
their patient’s diabetes.
The scores for pass/fail criteria of both groups exceeded 80% and 70%
required for the acceptance criteria. The clinical data demonstrated that the
ARK Care Internet-Based Diabetes Management System for diabetics is easy
to use for both personal and professional users. The software performed as
expected during the course of the study.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Presented in k091102
N. Instrument Name:
ARKRAY Diabetes Management Software
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?:
Yes __X__ or No ______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?:
Yes ______ or No __X__
6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
Windows Vista (32 & 64 bit) Windows XP-XP Home Edition & XP Professional
(32 bit) Windows 7 (32 & 64 bit)
600 MHz Intel Pentium II or equivalent
Minimum 128MB RAM 100-200MB RAM used during installations and 100MB
used after installation.
CD ROM Drive
Internet web application which provides the specified features in the familiar form
of a web site accessible via the Internet Explorer web browser or Firefox web
browser using the IE Tabs plug-in
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Meter controlled, by time and date stamp
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable
5. Calibration:
Not Applicable
6. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
For each meter that will be claimed as compatible with the ARK Care system a
demonstration of accurate data transmission must be performed. This testing includes
meter load up and meter memory rollover testing to confirm data synchronization
upon after rollover.
Meters are loaded to memory capacity using the low and high controls, in addition a
7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
mid level control solution was created by a technician using equal parts of the low
and high control solutions. The assigned meter came with a data log sheet. Each result
and its details were logged after each individual test. This methodology also
prevented duplicate test results in the event that the same dose level was used
successively and potentially skewing the data set. In addition the technicians varied
the testing of control solutions, low, middle, and high to reduce potential misanalysis
of duplicate results on the meter system.
After the meters were loaded to capacity they were passed off to the software
validation group. Each meter system was then plugged into the ARK Care system,
correct meter platform selected in ARK Care and then meter memory was uploaded
and capacity verified against claim.
After initial memory capacity was confirmed ten more results were added to the
meters. Results of the data additions were compared against the original load up data.
The above testing confirms the ARK Care system can accurately acquire blood
glucose data from the tested glucose meter system.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8 of 8