
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k110641
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for Vitamin D assays
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin D Control
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, 21 CFR 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry (75)
reserved Quality Control Material
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indication for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin D Control is intended for use as an assayed control serum
to monitor the precision of laboratory testing procedures for the analysis of Vitamin D.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification				Regulation Section				Panel		
JJX			Class I,
reserved				21 CFR 862.1660
Quality Control Material				Clinical Chemistry (75)			

--- Page 2 ---
For in vitro diagnostic use only.
Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin D Control is made from human source material, and
therefore should be treated as potentially infectious. Each human donor unit used to
manufacture this control was tested by FDA accepted methods and found non-reactive for
Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg), antibody to Hepatitis C (HCV), antibody to HIB-
1/HIV-2, and antibody to Treponema Pallidum (Syphilis). This product may also contain
other human pathogens for which there are no approved tests. All human source material
should be considered potentially infectious and handled with the same precautions used
with patient specimens.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin D Control is prepared from human serum, protein
(bovine), purified biochemical materials, and chemicals. It also contains Proclin 300® and
Gentamicin as preservatives.
The controls are provided in lyophilized form. The control levels contain Vitamin D at the
corresponding target concentrations.
Target Concentrations (ng/mL)
Analyte Analyte Form
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
25 (OH) D2 0 10 10
25 (OH) Vitamin D
25 (OH) D3 10 20 60
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Specialty Immunoassay Control – 25-OH Vitamin D
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k043108
3. Comparison with predicate:
Items Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Specialty Immunoassay
D Control Control – 25-OH Vitamin D
(Candidate Device) (Predicate Device)
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Analyte	Analyte Form	Target Concentrations (ng/mL)		
		Level 1	Level 2	Level 3
25 (OH) Vitamin D	25 (OH) D2	0	10	10
	25 (OH) D3	10	20	60

[Table 2 on page 2]
Items	Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin
D Control
(Candidate Device)		Bio-Rad Liquichek™ Specialty Immunoassay	
			Control – 25-OH Vitamin D	
			(Predicate Device)	
				

[Table 3 on page 2]
Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin
D Control
Candidate Device)

--- Page 3 ---
Similarity
Intended Use Same For use as an assayed quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory testing
procedures for the measurement of 25-OH
Vitamin D
Analyte(s ) Same 25-OH Vitamin D
Levels of Same 3
Controls
Matrix Same Human Serum with additives
Differences
Vitamin D 25(OH) Vitamin D2 25(OH) Vitamin D3
Analyte Forms 25(OH) Vitamin D3
Other Analytes None Contains also:
Anti-Tg
Anti-TPO
C-peptide
Erythropoietin (EPO)
Intact PTH (iPTH)
IGF-I
Osteocalcin
Storage 12 months at 2 to 8˚C 2 years at -20˚C to -70˚C
(unopened)
Form Lyophilized Liquid
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
EN standard, 13640 – Stability testing of In Vitro diagnostic reagents.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The Vitamin D2 and D3 antigen material were obtained from commercial vendors. The
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarity		
Intended Use	Same	For use as an assayed quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory testing
procedures for the measurement of 25-OH
Vitamin D
Analyte(s )	Same	25-OH Vitamin D
Levels of
Controls	Same	3
Matrix	Same	Human Serum with additives
Differences		
Vitamin D
Analyte Forms	25(OH) Vitamin D2
25(OH) Vitamin D3	25(OH) Vitamin D3
Other Analytes	None	Contains also:
Anti-Tg
Anti-TPO
C-peptide
Erythropoietin (EPO)
Intact PTH (iPTH)
IGF-I
Osteocalcin
Storage
(unopened)	12 months at 2 to 8˚C	2 years at -20˚C to -70˚C
Form	Lyophilized	Liquid

--- Page 4 ---
Vitamin D2 and D3 antigen material are supplied as a white solid. The Vitamin D2 and
Vitamin D3 antigens are solubilized in 95% Ethyl Alcohol and subsequently spiked into
the 25-hydroxy Vitamin D2/D3 Control Matrix to manufacture the Vitamin D Level 1, 2,
and 3 controls.
Value Assignment:
• The control ranges as determined using DiaSorin LIAISON, DiaSorin RIA, IDS EIA
and LC-MS/MS assays are provided in the assigned value sheet for each lot release.
Each control range was determined from a minimum of 20 measurements per assay
using 2 reagent/calibrator lots, 2 instruments, in 2 runs with 5 replicates each run.
The ranges were determined as mean +/- 2 SD for DiaSorin LIAISON, DiaSorin RIA
assays or mean +/-30% for IDS EIA and LC-MS/MS assays.
• In the labeling the sponsor recommends that each end user laboratory establish its
own means and acceptable ranges and use the assigned value sheet as guidance only.
Stability:
• Shelf life stability:
Real-time testing at 2-8oC were conducted and is still on-going. The stability study
protocol and acceptance criteria have been reviewed and found to be acceptable. The
current test results support a shelf life of 12 months at 2-8oC.
• Reconstituted Stability:
The stability study protocol and acceptance criteria to determine the reconstituted
stability and freeze/thaw cycle of the controls have been reviewed and found to be
acceptable. The control solutions are stable for 14 days when stored tightly capped at
2-8oC, and stable for 63 days when stored at -10oC. Controls may be frozen and
thawed repeatedly for up to 9 cycles
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The control ranges as determined using DiaSorin LIAISON, DiaSorin RIA, IDS EIA and
LC-MS/MS assays are provided in the assigned value sheet for each lot release.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5