
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number: K110722
B. Purpose for Submission: New device
C. Measurand: Adenovirus antigens
D. Type of Test: Immunochromatographic test
E. Applicant: Rapid Pathogen Screening, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names: RPS Adeno Detector Plus™
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 866.3020; Adeno virus serological reagents
2. Classification: Class: I
3. Product code: GOD; antigens, CF (including CF control), Adenovirus 1 – 33
4. Panel: 83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
The RPS Adeno Detector Plus is a rapid immunoassay test for the visual, qualitative
in vitro detection of Adenoviral antigens (hexon protein) directly from human eye
fluid. The test is intended for professional use as an aid in the rapid differential
diagnosis of acute conjunctivitis.
Negative results do not preclude Adenovirus infection nor are they intended to rule
out other microbial-caused infections of the conjunctiva, and should not be used as
the sole basis for treatment or other management decisions.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s): For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements: None
1

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
The RPS Adeno Detector Plus™ consists of three (3) parts: a Sample Collector, an
immunoassay test strip in a plastic Test Cassette housing, and a Buffer. The Sample
Collector is used to take a sample of ocular fluid. The separately packaged and sterile
Sample Collector has a contoured end with a Dacron fleece to collect the samples. The
plastic housing of the Test Cassette body protects the strip from unintended physical
influence. Additionally the housing guarantees correct sample transfer onto the lateral
flow assay strip. The Buffer is a buffered salt solution containing proteins, detergents
and preservatives. The Buffer functions as the solution that initiates the test, extracts the
Adenoviral proteins, filters unwanted cellular debris, and transports the immune complex
and the control conjugate to the Test and Control Lines on the test strip membrane.
The RPS Adeno Detector Plus utilizes Direct Sampling Micro-Filtration technology.
Adenoviral antigen, the conserved Adenovirus hexon protein, when present in the patient
sample is captured between two antigen specific monoclonal antibodies. One antibody is
immobilized in the detection zone of the device. The second antibody is labeled with
colloidal gold. The detector is a disposable, rapid test requiring 10 minutes for a result.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s): RPS Adeno Detector
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s): K052092
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
The RPS Adeno Detector Plus The RPS Adeno Detector is a rapid
Intended use is a rapid immunoassay test immunochromatography test for visual,
for the visual, qualitative in qualitative in-vitro detection of adenoviral
vitro detection of Adenoviral antigens (hexon protein) directly from
antigens (hexon protein) human eye fluid. The test is intended for
directly from human eye fluid. professional use in an office, clinic or
The test is intended for hospital as an aid in the rapid differential
professional use as an aid in diagnosis of acute adenoviral conjunctivitis.
the rapid differential diagnosis All negative test results should be confirmed
of acute conjunctivitis. by cell culture.
Negative results do not
preclude Adenovirus infection
nor are they intended to rule
out other microbial-caused
infections of the conjunctiva,
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities							
	Item			Device		Predicate	
Intended use			The RPS Adeno Detector Plus
is a rapid immunoassay test
for the visual, qualitative in
vitro detection of Adenoviral
antigens (hexon protein)
directly from human eye fluid.
The test is intended for
professional use as an aid in
the rapid differential diagnosis
of acute conjunctivitis.
Negative results do not
preclude Adenovirus infection
nor are they intended to rule
out other microbial-caused
infections of the conjunctiva,			The RPS Adeno Detector is a rapid
immunochromatography test for visual,
qualitative in-vitro detection of adenoviral
antigens (hexon protein) directly from
human eye fluid. The test is intended for
professional use in an office, clinic or
hospital as an aid in the rapid differential
diagnosis of acute adenoviral conjunctivitis.
All negative test results should be confirmed
by cell culture.	

--- Page 3 ---
and should not be used as the
sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions.
Specimen type Eye swab Eye swab
Method Immunochromatography Immunochromatography
Type of assay Rapid test Rapid test
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Test Line Color Red Red
Control Line Blue Red
Color
Limit of 6ng/ml 50 ng/ml
detection
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle: Lateral Flow Immunoassay
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision: Samples were prepared in stabilizing buffer with purified Adenovirus
hexon protein. Eight samples containing weak positive, weak negative, Positive
and Negative controls were tested. At one site, 160 additional tests consisting of
eight samples containing weak positive, weak negative, Positive and Negative
controls were tested over 20 operating days. The inter-assay precision to detect
positive and negative samples was 100% although the strength of the signal varied
for the weak positive samples.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Specimen type
Method
Type of assay		and should not be used as the
sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions.
Eye swab
Immunochromatography
Rapid test					Eye swab
Immunochromatography
Rapid test	
Differences								
	Item				Device		Predicate	
Test Line Color
Control Line
Color
Limit of
detection				Red
Blue
6ng/ml			Red
Red
50 ng/ml	

--- Page 4 ---
Reproducibility: Samples were prepared in stabilizing buffer with purified
Adenovirus hexon protein. Eight samples containing weak positive, weak
negative, Positive and Negative controls were tested. A total of 162 tests were
performed at 3 sites over 3 consecutive days. The inter-assay precision to detect
positive and negative samples was 100% although the strength of the signal varied
for the weak positive samples.
Batch to batch reproducibility was tested with three different Adeno Detector Plus
batches. There was no variability among the three batches as assessed by testing
in triplicates with seven different concentrations of Hexon ranging from 0 to 48
ng/ml.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range: Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit: All human Adenovirus serotypes contain the hexon protein
that is detected by the RPS Adeno Detector Plus. The antibodies target a
conserved region of the hexon protein universal to all Adenovirus serotypes.
In the laboratory, RPS tested serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 14, 19, 31, 37 and
demonstrated a positive antigen-antibody reaction. The detection limit of the
RPS Adeno Detector Plus was measured by serial dilutions of the Adenovirus
hexon protein and found to be 6 ng/ml or 60 pg per test and this is estimated
to be equivalent to 40-50 Adenoviruses.
e. Analytical specificity: Various infectious pathogens generated in cell culture
and important for conjunctivitis were tested in the laboratory to determine
potential cross-reactivities with RPS Adeno Detector Plus:
Echovirus Type 6 Culture Fluid
Parainfluenza Type 2
Parainfluenza Type 3
Haemophilus influenzae
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Staphylococcus aureus
Parainfluenza Type 1
Moraxella catarrhalis
Echovirus Type 11
Rhinovirus Type 1A
Herpes Simplex Virus 2 Strain G
Herpes Simplex Virus 1 Strain F
Herpes Simplex Virus 1 Strain HF
Coxsackievirus B1
4

--- Page 5 ---
Echovirus Type 7
Staphylococcus epidermis (3 strains)
Chlamydia trachomatis, Serovar H
Chlamydia trachomatis, Serovar I
All isolates were cultured from human specimens. The concentrations of the
suspensions were between 500,000 and 1,500,000 microorganisms (virus,
bacteria) per ml. No positive test lines developed, and no cross-reactivities to
these microorganisms occurred when 10µl of the culture suspension was tested.
Interfering Substances: The following eye medications were tested for
interferences with the RPS Adeno Detector Plus.
"Visine" Pfizer,"Trusopt" Merck, "Xalatan" Pharmacia,"Betimol"
Vistakon,"Alcaine" Alcon,"Tobra Dex" Alcon, "Alrex" B&L,"Quixin"
Vistakon,"Econopred" Alcon,"Optivar" MedPointe,"Elastat" Allergan,"Alphagan"
Allergan,"Zymar" Allergan,"Thera Tears" AVS,"Refresh Tears"
Allergan,"Vigamox" Alcon,"Refresh Liquigel" Allergan,"Lotemax"
B&L,"Polymyxin B sulfate" Falcon,"Lumigan" Allergan, human IgA (1 mg/ml),
Sigma-Aldrich,human lactoferrin (1 mg/ml), Sigma-Aldrich,Transferring (1
mg/ml), Sigma-Aldrich,"Pataday"-Alcon,"Voltaren"-Novartis,"Zylet"-
Bausch&Lomb,"FML"-llergan,"Nevanac"-Alcon,"Xibrom"-Ista,"Optive"-
Allergan"Combigan"-Allergan,"AzaSite"-Inspire,"Acular LS"-
Allergan,"Travatan"-Alcon,"Proparacaine"-Wilson,"Systaine"-Alcon,"GenTeal"-
Novartis,"Blink Tears"-Amo,"Azopt"-Alcon,"Pred Forte"-Allergan,"Zaditor"-
Novartis,"Iquix"-istakon,"Timolol"-Falcon,"Gentamycin Sulfate"-Falcon, and
Povidone – Triad Disposables
To check for specificity, 10% of each medication was applied to the Sampling
Fleece. Sensitivity was checked with 1:1 mixtures of purified Adenoviral hexon
protein in human tears at twice the cutoff level and 20% of the respective
medication. Neither false positives nor false negatives at the cutoff level were
found.
f. Assay cut-off: The cut-off of the RPS Adeno Detector Plus assay was
determined by serial dilutions of the Adenovirus hexon protein and found to
be 6 ng/ml or 60 pg per test and this is estimated to be equivalent to 40-50
Adenoviruses.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
A prospective, multicenter, masked, sequential, clinical study was performed at a
5

--- Page 6 ---
combination of private ophthalmology practices and academic centers. The study
enrolled 128 patients presenting with a clinical diagnosis of acute viral
conjunctivitis. Thirty-one patients were confirmed positive for Adenovirus by
viral cell culture.
Clinical performance data of the RPS Adeno Detector Plus are summarized in the
following table:
Cell Culture
N = 128 + ‐
RPS Adeno
Detector + 28 4
Plus
‐ 3 93
90% (28/31)
Sensitivity
95% CI [74.2‐98.0]
96% (93/97)
Specificity
95% CI [89.8‐98.9]
97% (93/96)
Negative Predictive Value
95% CI [91.1‐99.3]
88% (28/32)
Positive Predictive Value
95% CI [71.0‐96.5]
b. Matrix comparison: Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity: Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity: Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off: Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The prevalence of Adenovirus varies during the year and from region to region, with
outbreaks typically occurring during spring and early summer. The true incidence of
Adenoviral conjunctivitis is dependent on many factors including the method of
specimen collection and the test method used. In previous studies, the prevalence of
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
N = 128		Cell Culture	
		+ ‐	
RPS Adeno
Detector
Plus	+	28	4
	‐	3	93
Sensitivity		90% (28/31)
95% CI [74.2‐98.0]	
Specificity		96% (93/97)
95% CI [89.8‐98.9]	
Negative Predictive Value		97% (93/96)
95% CI [91.1‐99.3]	
Positive Predictive Value		88% (28/32)
95% CI [71.0‐96.5]	

--- Page 7 ---
Adenovirus infections varied between 20% and 75% of all cases of infectious
conjunctivitis. In the RPS Adeno Detector Plus clinical study the Adenoviral
incidence was found to be 24%.
N. Proposed Labeling: The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21
CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion: The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete
and supports a substantial equivalence decision.
7