
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k110309
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Human hemoglobin (hHb) in human feces
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Orient Gene Biotech
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
FOB One Step Rapid Test
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.6550, Occult blood test
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KHE, Reagent, Occult blood
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The FOB One Step Rapid Test is a rapid chromatographic immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of human occult blood in human fecal specimens as an aid in
the diagnosis of gastrointestinal disorders. The device is suitable for use in
laboratories and physician’s offices as well as for over the counter use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription and over-the-counter use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The FOB One Step Rapid Test device consists of a sample well and a testing pad that
employs double antibody-sandwich chromatographic immunoassay technology to
detect the presence of FOB in human feces. The sample is collected in a tube
containing collection buffer fluid.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
INSTANT-VIEW® Fecal Occult Blood Rapid Test
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k070660
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended use Qualitative detection of occult Same
blood in feces
Sample Type Feces Same
Assay Lateral flow chromatographic Same
immunoassay
Detection Level 50 ng/mL hHb in fecal Same
extraction buffer
Users Healthcare professionals and Healthcare professional
lay persons (OTC) use and lay persons (OTC)
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Format Cassette only Dip Strip and Cassette
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced:
None
L. Test Principle:
The FOB One Step Rapid Test is a rapid qualitative test detecting the presence of
human hemoglobin (hHb) in a fecal sample at 50 ng/mL and above. The tube is
shaken to mix the fecal sample in the extraction buffer. Then, 3 drops (about 75μL)
of the mixed sample solution is added onto the sample well of the test device. After
the sample has been dispensed into the sample well, the extracted sample migrates
into the pad containing detector antibody conjugated dye label. The hHb in the
sample will bind to the detector antibody and migrate onto the membrane where the
test and control lines are located. On the membrane, immobilized capture antibodies
form the invisible Test line. When the complex of hHb and detector antibodies
reaches the Test line, the complex binds to the capture antibodies to form a visible red
Test line indicative of a positive result; i.e., hHb is present. When no hHb is present
in the sample, no red Test line forms. In addition to the Test line, a Control line on
the membrane provides an internal quality control of the test device. Anti-species
specific IgG antibodies are immobilized at the Control line. These antibodies will
capture any unreacted/excess antibody-gold conjugates, forming a distinct red Control
line. The Control line serves to demonstrate that: lyophilized antibodies in the dye
pad have been hydrated; sufficient sample has been applied to allow for migration to
the Test line and beyond; chemicals are working properly; and the proper procedure
was followed. If a Control line does not appear within the designated incubation
time, the test result is invalid and the test should be repeated using a new test device.
M. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended use			Qualitative detection of occult
blood in feces			Same		
Sample Type			Feces			Same		
Assay			Lateral flow chromatographic
immunoassay			Same		
Detection Level			50 ng/mL hHb in fecal
extraction buffer			Same		
Users			Healthcare professionals and
lay persons (OTC)			Healthcare professional
use and lay persons (OTC)		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Format			Cassette only			Dip Strip and Cassette		

--- Page 3 ---
Human stool samples in collection buffer were spiked with hHb at the
following concentrations: 0, 37.5, 50, 62.5, and 2000 ng/mL. In the intra-run,
intra-day precision studies, 10 samples were tested at each concentration with
3 lots of the FOB One Step Rapid Test. In the inter-site reproducibility
studies, 15 samples were tested at each concentration with 3 lots of the FOB
One Step Rapid Test. All samples with concentrations below 50 ng/mL hHb
tested negative with the candidate device while samples at and above 50
ng/mL tested positive, as expected.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Internal Control: Procedural controls are included in the test device. A red
line appearing the control region is considered as the internal procedural
control. It confirms sufficient specimen volume, adequate membrane wicking
and correct procedural technique.
External Control: Controls are not provided with this kit. It is recommended
that positive and negative controls be performed to verify proper test
performance.
Stability of the Assay
Real time stability of the device (cassette and collection buffer solution vial)
was tested with 3 lots of the device. Devices were stored at 20 - 30ºC for 20
months. Nine devices from each lot were tested at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 and 20
months. All test devices showed positive results when tested with an external
positive control and showed negative results when tested with hemoglobin
negative aqueous fecal samples. The expiration date of this device is set at 20
months when stored between 20ºC - 30ºC.
Sample Stability: Samples were stored in a refrigerator at 2- 8ºC and tested
with 10 cassettes at 0, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours. Two concentrations of hHb -
12.5 ng/mL and 62.5 ng/mL- spiked into aqueous stool samples were tested.
Based on these studies, the sample stability is determined to be 72 hours when
stored between 2- 8ºC.
Temperature Stress Study: Five test devices were tested after storing them in
4ºC, 10ºC, 25ºC, 30ºC, 37ºC, 45ºC, 50ºC, 55ºC and 60ºC for 4 hours. Five
test devices tested with hemoglobin concentration of 10 ng Hb/mL tested
negative for the storage temperature limit of 50ºC. The results for storage
temperature above 50ºC were invalid. Five test devices tested with
hemoglobin concentration of 50 ng Hb/mL tested positive for the storage
temperature limit of 50ºC. The results for storage temperature above 50ºC
were invalid. The test device (cassette and buffer) showed acceptable
performance after being stored for 4 hours in temperatures ranging from 4ºC
to 50ºC.
d. Detection limit:
The detection limit of the device was determined by spiking 100 hemoglobin-
free stool samples with varying concentrations (0, 37.5, 50, 62.5 and 2000 ng
hHb/ml) of human hemoglobin. The test showed a cut-of 50 ng hHb/mL and
no prozone effect was seen up to 2000 ng hHb/mL.
3

--- Page 4 ---
The minimal detection limit of the device is 50 ng/mL of hHb in collection
buffer.
e. Analytical specificity:
Positive and negative stool samples were spiked with the following
substances: horseradish peroxidase (20 mg/mL), extract of red radish, extract
of raw turnip, extract of cauliflower, extract of broccoli, dietary supplements
with chlorine, fluoride, and iron, dietary supplements with Vitamin C and
toilet water with and without cleaner and deodorizer. Animal hemoglobin
from beef, chicken, fish, horse, goat, pig, rabbit, and sheep was also used in
these studies. Addition of these substances had no effect on the test results.
g. Assay cut-off:
The assay cut-off is 50 ng/mL of hHb in buffer.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The FOB One Step Rapid Test was evaluated in comparison with a
commercially available predicate device in foreign as well as US sites.
The foreign sites consisted of 3 physician office sites (POL) and 1 reference
laboratory site. In the POL study, five different sample concentrations (0,
37.5, 50, 62.5, and 500 ng hHb/mL) were tested using the FOB One Step
Rapid Test device and the predicate device using 20 replicates for each
concentration, for a total of 100 samples. All samples were blind labeled.
Results obtained from 3 sites agreed 99.0% with the expected results and
98.0% with the results obtained with the predicate device. In the reference
laboratory site study (study of non-technical personnel), 30 participants tested
5 samples (1 at each concentration) with the two FOB devices. A total of 150
samples were tested in this study. There was 98.7% agreement with the
expected results and 98.0% agreement with the results obtained with the
predicate device.
The US study was a lay-user study conducted in two POL sites and one
scientific laboratory site. Twenty lay-users per site participated in these
studies by using their own specimens. The overall agreement of the test
device with the predicate device when tested by lay-users was 95.0% (95%
CI: 91% -100%). The overall agreement between the results obtained by lay-
users and professional users was 98.3% (95% CI: 91% - 100%). In the study
using spiked samples (12 per concentration), the overall agreement with the
predicate device was 93.3% (95% CI: 84% - 97%).
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Results are negative when <50 ng/mL of hHb in collection buffer solution and
positive when ≥ 50 ng/mL of hHb in collection buffer solution are present.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
5