
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k110056
B. Purpose for Submission:
Adding the Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter (ADCC) to a previously cleared
device (k050574)
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Axis- Shield PoC AS, Afinion AS100 Analyzer
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
The Afinion AS 100 Analyzer system is cleared for the Afinion HbA1c Assay
(k050574), and the Afinion ACR test for albumin and creatinine in urine (k072409).
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer is equipped with a new component/accessory:
Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter (ADCC). The ADCC is only for use
together with the Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer.
The ADCC is a small device for automatic transfer of data, including patient and
control assay results, from the Afinion™ Analyzer to a laboratory information
system (LIS) or another electronic journal system. It converts the format of the
results from the proprietary Afinion™ Analyzer protocol to a standardized
protocol (HL7 or ASTM). The main functionality for software contained in the
Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter is to:
• Extract test result data from the Afinion™AS100 Analyzer
• Convert the transmission format to a configurable standard protocol and
forward the result data on Ethernet
• Provide user feedback on LEDs
• Provide user interface for configuration and software upgrade through a
web interface
• Provide functionality to reset device to default/factory software status.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
The Afinion™ test system is a closed system consisting of the Afinion™ AS100
Analyzer and the Afinion™ Test Cartridges. The AS100 is a multi-assay analyzer
for point-of-care use.
The analyzer utilizes a digital camera and Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs) to
perform two kinds of measurements; reflection measurement (amount of light
reflected from a membrane) and transmission measurement (amount of light
propagating through a liquid). The analyzer comes to the user already calibrated,
and the calibration information is placed on the cartridge bar code.
The analyzer performs optical, electronic and mechanical checks on the capillary
tube, the test cartridge, and individual processing steps. If the analyzer detects an
error the assay will be interrupted and patient results are not reported. An error
message will be displayed. The operator refers to the User Manual for
interpretation of the error message.
To perform a test the capillary-like collection device is used to draws up either a
patient or control sample. The collection device is inserted into the test cartridge
then placed in the cartridge chamber of the analyzer. The lid is closed and the
cartridge is transported into the analysis compartment. Test and lot specific
information read from the barcode label tells the analyzer how to process the
cartridge. The sample and reagents are automatically transferred between the
wells of the cartridge. A monochrome solid-state camera monitors the entire
process. When the assay is completed, LEDs illuminate the final reaction area,
which can be either a colored membrane or a reaction well. The camera detects
the reflected or transmitted light, which is converted to a test result and displayed
on the screen. When the user accepts the result, the lid opens and the used
cartridge is removed and discarded.
The Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter (ADCC) is a small device to be used
together with Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer (Analyzer), and will be used for
automatic transfer of patient and control assay results from Analyzer to a
laboratory information system (LIS) or another electronic journal system. It
converts the format of the results from the proprietary Analyzer protocol to a
standardized protocols used by the LIS or other electronic journal system.
The software in the ADCC is implemented in a modularized way and the
operation of the software is based on interrupts, generated by timers or external
events, driving the actions of the software.
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Modes of Operation:
See k050574
4. Specimen Identification:
See k050574
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
See k050574
6. Calibration:
See k050574
7. Quality Control:
See k050574
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X___ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.7470 – Glycosylated Hemoglobin Assay
21 CFR 862.2400 – Densitometer/Scanner (Integrating, Reflectance, TLC, or
Radiochromatogram) for Clinical Use
21 CFR 862.1660 – Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
21 CFR 862.1645 – Urinary Protein or Albumin (Nonquantitative) Test System
21 CFR 862.1225 – Creatinine Test System
21 CFR 862.1660 – Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
21 CFR 866.5270 – C-Reactive Protein Immunological Test System
2. Classification:
Class II, I, I, I, II, I and II, respectively
3. Product code:
LCP, JQT, JJX, JIR, JFY, JJY, and DCK respectively
3

--- Page 4 ---
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology and Pathology), and 75 (Chemistry) respectively
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer with Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter (ADCC)
is a compact multi-assay analyzer for point-of-care testing, designed to analyze
the Afinion™ Test Cartridges. The ADCC is a small device for automatic transfer
of data, including patient and control assay results, from the Afinion™ Analyzer
to a laboratory information system or another electronic journal system.
Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer System, consisting of Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer
with Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter (ADCC), Afinion™ Test Cartridges
and Afinion™ Controls is for in vitro diagnostic use only.
Afinion™ HbA1c is an in-vitro diagnostic test for quantitative determination of
glycated hemoglobin (% hemoglobin A1c, % HbA1c) in human whole blood. The
measurement of % HbA1c is recommended as a marker of long-term metabolic
control in persons with diabetes mellitus.
Afinion™ HbA1c Controls have been designed for use with the Afinion™ AS100
Analyzer System. Quality control using the Afinion™ HbA1c Control should be
done to confirm that the Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer System is working properly
and provides reliable result.
The Afinion™ ACR assay is an in vitro diagnostic test for quantitative
determination of albumin, creatinine and albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in
human urine using the Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer. The measurement of urine
albumin, creatinine and albumin/creatinine ratio, aids in the early diagnosis of
nephropathy.
The Afinion™ ACR Control kit contains liquid preparations of albumin and
creatinine in citrate buffer. The controls should be used to confirm that the
Afinion™ AS100 Analyzer System is working properly and provides reliable
results.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
The device is for in vitro diagnostic prescription use. It is also intended for Point-
of-Care (POC) use.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
4

--- Page 5 ---
k050574: Afinion™ AS 100 Analyzer, Afinion™ HbA1c, Afinion™ HbA1c
Controls
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Reagent Similarities and Differences
Item Candidate Device: Predicate Device:
Afinion AS 100 Analyzer Afinion AS 100
with Afinion Data Analyzer
Connectivity Converter (k050574)
(k110056)
Intended Use Afinion™ AS100 Same
Analyzer is a compact
multi-assay analyzer for
point-of-care testing,
designed to analyze the
Afinion™ Test
Cartridges.
Measurement Reflection measurement Same
and transmission
measurement
Calibration Comes calibrated, Same
information on the
cartridge bar code
Accessory Afinion Data None
Connectivity Converter
for automatic transfer of
data, including patient and
control assay results
Data Transfer Automatic to laboratory Manual
information system ( LIS)
or other electronic journal
systems
Data Format HL7 or ASTM Displayed on the
analyzer screen
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in
Medical Devices - Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff
Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(k)s - Guidance for Industry and FDA
Staff
Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device (K97-1)
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Reagent Similarities and Differences				
Item		Candidate Device:		Predicate Device:
Afinion AS 100
Analyzer
(k050574)
		Afinion AS 100 Analyzer		
		with Afinion Data		
		Connectivity Converter		
		(k110056)		
Intended Use	Afinion™ AS100
Analyzer is a compact
multi-assay analyzer for
point-of-care testing,
designed to analyze the
Afinion™ Test
Cartridges.			Same
Measurement	Reflection measurement
and transmission
measurement			Same
Calibration	Comes calibrated,
information on the
cartridge bar code			Same
Accessory	Afinion Data
Connectivity Converter
for automatic transfer of
data, including patient and
control assay results			None
Data Transfer	Automatic to laboratory
information system ( LIS)
or other electronic journal
systems			Manual
Data Format	HL7 or ASTM			Displayed on the
analyzer screen

[Table 2 on page 5]
Predicate Device:
Afinion AS 100
Analyzer
(k050574)

--- Page 6 ---
In Vitro Diagnostic Devices: Guidance for the Preparation of 510(k) Submissions
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - User Fees and Refunds for Premarket
Notification Submissions (510(k)s)
Guidance for Off-the-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices; Final
Frequently Asked Questions on the New 510(k) Paradigm; Final
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
The device performance is the same as the predicate device, therefore new
accuracy studies were not performed.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
The device performance is the same as the predicate device, therefore new
precision studies were not performed.
c. Linearity:
The device performance is the same as the predicate device, therefore new
linearity studies were not performed.
d. Carryover:
The device performance is the same as the predicate device, therefore new
carryover studies were not performed.
e. Interfering Substances:
The device performance is the same as the predicate device, therefore new
interference studies were not performed.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
The Sponsor conducted testing to verify HL7 and ASTM communications
protocols were implemented as intended. They provided the Afinion™ Data
Connectivity Converter Interface HL7 Data Sheet, which describes the Data
Connectivity Protocol (patient and control records) for LIMS connectivity based
on the HL7 (health level 7) protocol in the ADCC for the Afinion™ AS100
6

--- Page 7 ---
Analyzer. It describes the protocol and the format of the records returned from the
Analyzer, gives examples, and highlights issues to be especially addressed; all
needed by the programmer that shall interface to this protocol on the LIMS side.
The Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter Interface ASTM Data Sheet
describes the Data Connectivity Protocol (patient and control records) for LIMS
connectivity based on the ASTM 1381 – 95 ("Standard Specification for Low-
Level Protocol to Transfer Messages Between Clinical Laboratory Instruments
and Computer Systems") - protocol in the ADCC for the Afinion™ AS100
Analyzer. It describes the protocol and the format of the records returned from the
Analyzer. It also gives examples and highlights issues to be especially
addressed; all needed by the programmer that shall interface to this protocol on
the LIMS side.
The Sponsor provided System Level functional requirements testing in the
"Summary report: Verification of Afinion™ Data Connectivity Converter" which
contains testing information of the entire system, plus verifying the accessory is
packaged with necessary cabling and a User Manual with information on where to
find the communication protocols ASTM and HL7
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7