
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k110718
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device
C. Measurand:
Assayed control for Red Blood Cells (RBC), White Blood Cells (WBC), Neutrophils
(NEUT) %, Lymphocytes (LYM)%, Monocytes (MONO) %, Eosinophils (EOS) %,
and Basophils (BASO) %, Mononuclear %, Polymorphonuclear %, Calcium
Pyrophosphate Dihydrate (CPPD) Crystals.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative and Qualitative
E. Applicant:
Streck Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Cell-Chex™ with CPPD Crystals
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.8625, Hematology quality control mixture
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GLQ, Mixture, Control, White Cell and Red Cell Indices
4. Panel:
81 (Hematology)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Cell-ChexTM with CPPD Crystals is an assayed control intended for monitoring
total cell counts performed manually using a hemocytometer to validate
quantitation of red and white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal fluid and body
fluid samples are including pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial fluid.
Level 1 contains calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate CPPD crystals which can be
used to monitor the presence of crystals in synovial fluid. Cell-ChexTM with
CPPD Crystals is also intended for monitoring white blood cell differentiation
(Mononuclear and Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils, Eosinophils, Basophils,
Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in body fluid samples performed using Cytospin®
smears.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable

--- Page 2 ---
I. Device Description:
Cell-Chex™ with CPPD Crystals is a stabilized suspension of human red blood cells
(RBC), human white blood cells (WBC) and calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate
(CPPD) crystals (Level 1 only) in a preservative medium. The product is packaged in
glass vials containing 2.0 mL. There are two different levels - Level 1 contains a low
cell count and CPPD crystals and Level 2 contains a high cell count and no crystals.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Cell-Chex™
2. Predicate K number(s):
k101335
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Cell-Chex™ with CPPD Crystals Cell-Chex™ (predicate)
Intended Use Cell-ChexTM with CPPD Crystals is an Cell-Chex is an assayed control
assayed control intended for monitoring total intended for monitoring total cell
cell counts performed manually using a counts performed manually using a
hemocytometer to validate quantitation of red hemocytometer to validate
and white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal quantitation of red and white blood
fluid and body fluid samples are including cells in patient cerebrospinal fluid and
pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial body fluid including pleural,
fluid. Level 1 contains calcium pyrophosphate pericardial, peritoneal and synovial
dihydrate crystals which can be used to fluid. Level 1 contains monosodium
monitor the presence of crystals in synovial urate crystals which can be used to
fluid. monitor the presence of crystals in
Cell-ChexTM with CPPD Crystals is also synovial fluid.
intended for monitoring white blood cell Cell-Chex is also intended for
differentiation (Mononuclear and monitoring white blood cell
Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils, Eosinophils, differentiation (Mononuclear,
Basophils, Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils,
body fluid samples performed using Eosinophils, Basophils, Lymphocytes
Cytospin® smears. and Monocytes) in body fluid samples
performed using Cytospin® smears.
Final Product There are two different levels. The product is Same
Form packaged in glass vials containing 2 mL. The
vials are packaged in a 6 or 12 welled vacuum
formed “clam shell” container with
instructions for use and assay sheet.
Open vial 30 days when stored at 2 – 10°C Same
stability
Closed vial 60 days when stored at 2 – 10°C Same
stability

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Cell-Chex™ with CPPD Crystals			Cell-Chex™ (predicate)	
Intended Use			Cell-ChexTM with CPPD Crystals is an
assayed control intended for monitoring total
cell counts performed manually using a
hemocytometer to validate quantitation of red
and white blood cells in patient cerebrospinal
fluid and body fluid samples are including
pleural, pericardial, peritoneal and synovial
fluid. Level 1 contains calcium pyrophosphate
dihydrate crystals which can be used to
monitor the presence of crystals in synovial
fluid.
Cell-ChexTM with CPPD Crystals is also
intended for monitoring white blood cell
differentiation (Mononuclear and
Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils, Eosinophils,
Basophils, Lymphocytes, and Monocytes) in
body fluid samples performed using
Cytospin® smears.			Cell-Chex is an assayed control
intended for monitoring total cell
counts performed manually using a
hemocytometer to validate
quantitation of red and white blood
cells in patient cerebrospinal fluid and
body fluid including pleural,
pericardial, peritoneal and synovial
fluid. Level 1 contains monosodium
urate crystals which can be used to
monitor the presence of crystals in
synovial fluid.
Cell-Chex is also intended for
monitoring white blood cell
differentiation (Mononuclear,
Polymorphonuclear; Neutrophils,
Eosinophils, Basophils, Lymphocytes
and Monocytes) in body fluid samples
performed using Cytospin® smears.		
Final Product
Form			There are two different levels. The product is
packaged in glass vials containing 2 mL. The
vials are packaged in a 6 or 12 welled vacuum
formed “clam shell” container with
instructions for use and assay sheet.			Same		
Open vial
stability			30 days when stored at 2 – 10°C			Same		
Closed vial
stability			60 days when stored at 2 – 10°C			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Cell-Chex™ Cell-Chex™ (predicate)
Reagents Stabilized human red blood cells and human Stabilized human red blood cells and
white blood cells in a preservative medium. human white blood cells in a
Level 1 contains calcium pyrophosphate preservative medium. Level 1
dihydrate (CPPD) crystals. contains monosodium urate crystals.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP05-A2, Evaluation of Precision of Quantitative Measurement Methods;
Approved Guidelines-Second Edition.
L. Test Principle:
Cell-Chex™ with CPPD crystals is an in-vitro diagnostic product used for quality
control procedures associated with body fluid counting protocols. Total cell counts
and crystal identification are performed with a hemocytometer using undiluted or
diluted body fluid. Crystal analysis can be performed using light or polarized light
microscopy following routine lab protocol for crystal identification. Differential cell
counts of body fluids are performed using Cytospin® smears stained by means of
routine hematology staining techniques.
M. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
• Run-to-run repeatability: Data was produced from 10 consecutive runs on
three lots of each control level on both the hemacytometer and Cytospin®.
Results fell within parameter specific assay value assignment ranges and
are reflective of ±3SD for the WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for
the red and white blood cell parameters. Level 1 results were positive for
crystals. Level 2 results were negative for crystals.
• Precision performance: Data was collected internally and at six
external sites in accordance with the product’s instructions for use (IFU)
using the hemacytometer and Cytospin®. One lot of control was run for
20 days (4 reps/day) over the course of 45 days. The results fell within
parameter specific assay value assignment ranges and are reflective of
±3SD for the WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the red and white
blood cell parameters. Level 1 results were positive for crystals. Level 2
results were negative for crystals.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
• Value assignment: Specific to each lot and level of control, a total of five
vials were analyzed in duplicate. The assigned values of the total cell
counts are based on the average number of cells per µL counted in the
nine large square grids on both sides of the Neubauer Improved
hemocytometer counting chamber. The assigned value of the differential
cell counts are based on replicate 100-cell differentials. A cumulative
mean, standard deviation and %CV were calculated for all measurands
reported using Cell-Chex™ with CPPD Crystals with the hemacytometer

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Cell-Chex™			Cell-Chex™ (predicate)	
Reagents			Stabilized human red blood cells and human
white blood cells in a preservative medium.
Level 1 contains calcium pyrophosphate
dihydrate (CPPD) crystals.			Stabilized human red blood cells and
human white blood cells in a
preservative medium. Level 1
contains monosodium urate crystals.		

--- Page 4 ---
and Cytospin® platforms. Crystals were identified as "positive" if
observed microscopically. The parameter specific assay value assignment
ranges are reflective of ± 3SD for the WBC differential parameters and ±2
SD for the RBC and WBC parameters.
• Open vial stability: Three separate lots were analyzed to verify
performance throughout the proposed 30 day open vial dating. At each
testing interval the vials of control were analyzed one time with the
hemacytometer and Cytospin®. On non-testing days, all vials of control
were removed from 2-10°C storage, equilibrated to room temperature and
mixed in accordance with the IFU. The results fell within parameter
specific assay value assignment ranges and are reflective of ±3SD for the
WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the red and white blood cell
parameters. Level 1 results were positive for crystals. Level 2 results were
negative for crystals.
• Closed vial stability: Three separate lots were analyzed to verify
performance throughout the 60 day expiration dating. At, each testing
interval the control materials were removed from 2-10°C storage,
equilibrated to room temperature, re-suspended and analyzed using both
the hemacytometer and Cytospin™. The results fell within parameter
specific assay value assignment ranges and are reflective of ±3SD for the
WBC differential parameters and ±2SD for the red and white blood cell
parameters. Level 1 results were positive for crystals. Level 2 results were
negative for crystals.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The expected value for this control is lot specific as specified by the value
assignment procedure. A value assignment sheet is provided with the Package

--- Page 5 ---
Insert accompanying the product. It is recommended that each laboratory
establish its own expected mean.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.