
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k111932
B. Purpose for Submission:
New submission for an accessory data management software application for cleared
glucose meters.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
PositiveID Corporation
iglucose System
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The iglucose™ System is designed to assist individuals with diabetes with
their record keeping management, by automatically tracking and storing
historical blood glucose readings. It has been developed for home or health
care facility settings as an aid in supporting diabetes management. iglucose™
is designed to connect to glucose meters and automatically transmit blood
glucose reading(s) to a secure database. Users can then utilize the iglucoe™
diabetes management portal (web-based application) to view their blood
glucose readings as well as to generate and display reports. At the user’s
discretion, authorized individuals can also view blood glucose readings and
reports.
More specifically, the iglucose™ System is comprised of the following:
• iglucose™ Device
• Secure Database
•iglucose™ Diabetes Management Portal (web-based application)
2. Principles of Operation:
The iglucose™ device is approximately the size of a cell phone and has a
rechargeable battery. It connects to compatible FDA cleared glucose meters
via a data cable and extracts data from a glucose meter. It then wirelessly (via
the cellular network) transmits data (blood glucose readings, date and time)
from a glucose meter to a secure database. Software used for the database
enables the data to be viewable in an organized manner via the iglucose™
diabetes management portal (web-based application). At the user’s discretion,
the data can be communicated via email, SMS text message and/or fax.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Data can be displayed in a logbook form. In addition, data can be displayed
and trended in reports that are in tabular and graphical formats such as line
graphs, pie charts and histograms.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?
Yes X or No .
4. Specimen Identification:
Meter controlled download to data manager
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable
6. Calibration:
Not Applicable
7. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X___ or No ______
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation Section:
21CFR §862.1345 -Glucose test system.
21CFR §862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I respectively
3. Product Code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over the Counter
JQP - Calculator/Data Processing Module, for Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The iglucose™ System collects and transmits stored data from a variety of FDA
cleared blood glucose meters such as the LifeScan® OneTouch® and Home
Diagnostics™ True™ monitoring systems to a secure database via wireless
cellular technology. Subsequently, blood glucose data can then be reviewed

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
through a web portal as an aid in supporting diabetes management. It is intended
to be used in a home or health care facility settings.
The iglucose™ System does not measure, interpret or make decisions on the data
that it conveys, nor is it intended to provide automated treatment decisions, or to
be used as a substitute for professional healthcare judgment. All medical
diagnosis and treatment are to be performed under the supervision and oversight
of an appropriate healthcare professional.
2. Special Condition for use Statement(s):
Over The Counter (OTC)
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
IDEAL LIFE Pod, k080538
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Attribute IDEAL LIFE Pod K080538 Subject Device (iglucose™
System)
Indication(s) for Use / Same The iglucose™ System collects
Intended Use and transmits stored data from a
variety of FDA cleared blood
glucose meters to a secure
database via wireless cellular
technology. Subsequently, blood
glucose data can then be
reviewed through a web portal
as an aid in supporting diabetes
management. It is intended to be
used in a home or health care
facility settings.
Connection to glucose Wirelessly Short Range Radio Data cable
meters System using Bluetooth and wired
SmartCable
Compatible glucose meters Same Same
Data Collection Software Same Same
Functionality
Transmission to database Telephone Line Wireless Cellular
Power source Wall power plug for Pod. Wall power plug (100 to 240
VAC/ 50-60) and rechargeable
batteryin iglucose™

[Table 1 on page 3]
Attribute	IDEAL LIFE Pod K080538	Subject Device (iglucose™
System)
Indication(s) for Use /
Intended Use	Same	The iglucose™ System collects
and transmits stored data from a
variety of FDA cleared blood
glucose meters to a secure
database via wireless cellular
technology. Subsequently, blood
glucose data can then be
reviewed through a web portal
as an aid in supporting diabetes
management. It is intended to be
used in a home or health care
facility settings.
Connection to glucose
meters	Wirelessly Short Range Radio
System using Bluetooth and wired
SmartCable	Data cable
Compatible glucose meters	Same	Same
Data Collection Software
Functionality	Same	Same
Transmission to database	Telephone Line	Wireless Cellular
Power source	Wall power plug for Pod.	Wall power plug (100 to 240
VAC/ 50-60) and rechargeable
batteryin iglucose™

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
Attribute IDEAL LIFE Pod K080538 Subject Device (iglucose™
System)
Type of Telephone line (Pod with Cellular Technology ( iglucose™
Telecommunications embedded modem) device with embedded cellular
Technology used; module)
Communication method
with central server.
Method of Outbound Data is viewed in a web-based Data is viewed in a web-based
communication of application, sent via email. SMS application, sent via email, SMS
information text and fax. text and fax. No voice Response
System.
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
IEC 60601-1-1:2000, Medical electrical equipment -- Part 1-1: General
requirements for safety - Collateral standard: Safety requirements for medical
electrical systems.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not Applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
c. Linearity:
Not Applicable
d. Carryover:
Not Applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not Applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
A Human Factors study of 22 participants was performed to verify ease of
use, label comprehension, meter data transfer in the hands of lay users.
Additionally, meters are bench tested to verify data transfer compatibly
and accuracy.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Attribute	IDEAL LIFE Pod K080538	Subject Device (iglucose™
System)
Type of
Telecommunications
Technology used;
Communication method
with central server.	Telephone line (Pod with
embedded modem)	Cellular Technology ( iglucose™
device with embedded cellular
module)
Method of Outbound
communication of
information	Data is viewed in a web-based
application, sent via email. SMS
text and fax.	Data is viewed in a web-based
application, sent via email, SMS
text and fax. No voice Response
System.