
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k111509
B. Purpose for Submission:
New submission for an accessory data management software application for
cleared glucose meters
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
SweetSpot Diabetes Care, Inc.
SweetSpot Diabetes Data Management Service
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The SweetSpot Service allows patients or healthcare professionals to
download data from blood glucose meters (BGM) and generates a report from
the downloaded data, which is delivered to the healthcare professional for use
in patient management. The Service is comprised of three different types of
data retrieval stations, a Fetch Utility, a data processing and storage platform,
report generation software, and an information delivery service.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Service is Microsoft Windows and Apple OSX compatible, and is
delivered as Software as a Service (SaaS) over the internet. The Service
centrally manages data and activities through multiple, loosely-coupled units
of functionality.
The SweetSpot Service is comprised of 3 subsystems: Kiosk, Fetch Utility,
and SweetSpot Platform. The Fetch Utility resides on a Kiosk and is updated
from the Platform as needed. If the Back-Office Web Application is used, the
Fetch Utility is called from the Platform for each instance of use (it does not
reside on a standalone computer). The Platform resides on web.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes X or No .

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?
Yes or No X .
If a BGM uses wireless or Bluetooth® communication, the Kiosk is capable
of detecting these signals and downloading the BGM data using 802.11(g) or
Bluetooth® 2.1 protocols.
The SweetSpot Service operates in the following manner:
· The patient or clinician “checks-in” (downloads) BGM data
· The BGM data are sent to the SweetSpot Platform on the Web
· The SweetSpot Platform performs various data processing steps on the
BGM data
· The SweetSpot Platform generates a report from the BGM data
· The SweetSpot Service delivers the report to the clinician, and to the
patient if requested
4. Specimen Identification:
Meter controlled download to data manager
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable
6. Calibration:
Not Applicable
7. Quality Control:
Not Applicable
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X___ or No ______
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation Section:
21CFR §862.1345 -Glucose test system.
21CFR §862.2100 - Calculator/data processing module for clinical use.
2. Classification:
Class II and I respectively
3. Product Code:
NBW - System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over the Counter
JQP - Calculator/Data Processing Module, for Clinical Use
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
The SweetSpot Diabetes Data Management Service is intended for use in
clinical settings by both patients and healthcare professionals, to assist in the
review, analysis, and evaluation of blood glucose test results by the clinician
to support effective diabetes management. It is intended for use as an
accessory to blood glucose meters with data interface capabilities.
2. Special Condition for use Statement(s):
Prescription Use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
MyCareTeam-Diabetes (MCT-Diabetes) data management software
k073699
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Indication for use Service is intended for use same
in clinical settings by both
patients and healthcare
professionals, to assist in
the review, analysis, and
evaluation of blood glucose
test results by the clinician
to support effective diabetes
management. It is intended
for use as an accessory to
blood glucose meters with
data interface capabilities.
User patients and healthcare same
professionals
Data access Accessed from a typical PC same
Interface Icon-based user interfaces same
Meter support commonly available same
blood glucose monitors
Reports Automated reports to aid in same
diabetes management
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Data Upload Patient or Clinician at the Patient from home
clinic
Report Reports are automatically reports to the clinician only
sent to the clinician via a after the patient has granted
predefined workflow permission
Computer Windows or Macintosh Windows

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Indication for use			Service is intended for use
in clinical settings by both
patients and healthcare
professionals, to assist in
the review, analysis, and
evaluation of blood glucose
test results by the clinician
to support effective diabetes
management. It is intended
for use as an accessory to
blood glucose meters with
data interface capabilities.			same		
User			patients and healthcare
professionals			same		
Data access			Accessed from a typical PC			same		
Interface			Icon-based user interfaces			same		
Meter			support commonly available
blood glucose monitors			same		
Reports			Automated reports to aid in
diabetes management			same		
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Data Upload			Patient or Clinician at the
clinic			Patient from home		
Report			Reports are automatically
sent to the clinician via a
predefined workflow			reports to the clinician only
after the patient has granted
permission		
Computer			Windows or Macintosh			Windows		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
· ISO 14971:2007, Medical devices - Application of risk management to
medical devices
· ISO15197:2003 - In vitro diagnostic test systems - Requirements for blood -
glucose monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not Applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
c. Linearity:
Not Applicable
d. Carryover:
Not Applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not Applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
A Human Factors study of 21 participants was performed to verify ease of
use, label comprehension, meter data transfer in the hands of lay users.
Additionally, meters are bench tested to verify data transfer compatibly
and accuracy.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
a substantial equivalence decision.