
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k111023
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator materials for luteinizing hormone (LH)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Abbott Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ARCHITECT LH Calibrators
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Classification Regulation Section Panel
Code
JIT Class II 21 CFR § 862.1150, Calibrator Clinical Chemistry
(75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ARCHITECT LH Calibrators are for the calibration of the ARCHITECT i
System when used for the quantitative determination of human luteinizing hormone
(LH) in human serum and plasma.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
	Code				
JIT			Class II	21 CFR § 862.1150, Calibrator	Clinical Chemistry
(75)

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
ARCHITECT i2000SR analyzer
I. Device Description:
The ARCHITECT LH calibrators consists of six bottles of calibrators (Cal A through
F), with 4.0 mL of different concentrations of human luteinizing hormone (LH) in
each bottle (0, 1.0, 3.5, 15, 50, and 250 mIU/mL). The calibrators are supplied as a
ready to use liquid, requiring no reconstitution or dilution. They contain phosphate
buffer with protein stabilizers, luteinizing hormone (LH), and preservatives (ProClin
300 and ProClin 950).
All human source materials has been tested using FDA cleared or approved methods
and found to be nonreactive for HbsAg, HIV-Ag or HIV-RNA, anti-HIV-1/2, and
anti-HCV.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate device name Predicate 510(k) number
Architect LH calibrators k032458
Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences
Item New Device Predicate Device
(k032458)
Indications for Same For the calibration of the
Use ARCHITECT i System when
used for the quantitative
determination of human
luteinizing hormone (LH) in
human serum and plasma.
Analyte Same luteinizing hormone (LH)
Number of Levels 6 levels (A to F) 2 levels ( level 1 and 2)
Note: Matching of calibrators Note: Calibrators must be used
with reagents and controls is not with matched reagents and
required. controls per labeling.
Standardization The calibrators are referenced to The calibrators are manufactured
the World Health Organization by dilution and referenced to the
(WHO) Luteinizing Hormone World Health Organization
(LH) Human, Pituitary 2nd (W.H.O.) Luteinizing Hormone
International Standard 80/552. (LH) Human, Pituitary 2nd
Note: Calibrators B-F are International Standard 80/552 at
manufactured by dilution. each Concentration.
Composition Calibrators B-F: Luteinizing Calibrators 1-2: Luteinizing
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Predicate device name			Predicate 510(k) number	
Architect LH calibrators			k032458		

[Table 2 on page 2]
	Similarities and Differences				
Item	Item	New Device		Predicate Device	
				(k032458)	
Indications for
Use		Same	For the calibration of the
ARCHITECT i System when
used for the quantitative
determination of human
luteinizing hormone (LH) in
human serum and plasma.		
Analyte		Same	luteinizing hormone (LH)		
Number of Levels		6 levels (A to F)
Note: Matching of calibrators
with reagents and controls is not
required.	2 levels ( level 1 and 2)
Note: Calibrators must be used
with matched reagents and
controls per labeling.		
Standardization		The calibrators are referenced to
the World Health Organization
(WHO) Luteinizing Hormone
(LH) Human, Pituitary 2nd
International Standard 80/552.
Note: Calibrators B-F are
manufactured by dilution.	The calibrators are manufactured
by dilution and referenced to the
World Health Organization
(W.H.O.) Luteinizing Hormone
(LH) Human, Pituitary 2nd
International Standard 80/552 at
each Concentration.		
Composition		Calibrators B-F: Luteinizing	Calibrators 1-2: Luteinizing		

--- Page 3 ---
hormone (from human pituitary) hormone (from human pituitary)
- changed vendor code
Calibrators A-F: Diluent: Calibrators 1-2: Diluent: Calf
Phosphate buffer with protein serum
stabilizers (bovine)
Calibrators A-F: Preservatives:
Calibrators A-F: Preservatives:
Sodium azide
ProClin 300 and ProClin 950
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
ARCHITECT LH calibrators are prepared gravimetrically using human
luteinizing hormone (LH) and are traceable to the WHO International Standard
80/552.
Value Assignment
ARCHITECT LH calibrators are manufactured using human luteinizing
hormone (LH) and the concentration values are assigned against internal
reference standards. The internal reference standards are assigned against the
WHO International standard 80/552. The concentration values of the working
calibrators were assigned by testing multiple times on one Architect i2000SR
analyzer using one lot of reagent. The sponsor’s protocol and acceptance
criteria was reviewed and found to be acceptable.
Stability:
Stability of the calibrators is determined by accelerated stability study using
the Architect i instrument. Real-time stability study is still on-going. Based on
the real-time stability study the sponsor determined that the calibrators have a
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	hormone (from human pituitary)
- changed vendor code
Calibrators A-F: Diluent:
Phosphate buffer with protein
stabilizers (bovine)
Calibrators A-F: Preservatives:
ProClin 300 and ProClin 950	hormone (from human pituitary)
Calibrators 1-2: Diluent: Calf
serum
Calibrators A-F: Preservatives:
Sodium azide

--- Page 4 ---
shelf-life stability of 12 months when stored at 2-8oC and an open-vial
stability of 4 months when stored at 2-8oC. The sponsor’s protocol and
acceptance criteria was reviewed and found to be acceptable.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
4