
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
ODE Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K111072
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
Trade Name:
BioPlex™ 2200 MMRV IgG Kit
BioPlex™ 2200 MMRV IgG Calibrator Set
BioPlex™ 2200 MMRV IgG Control Set
510(k) number: K091616
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED. There is a labeling change to alter the frequency of QC testing
from once per pack and per day to once per day or per new reagent pack lot. This labeling change
does not affect the intended use.
3. The modification presented in this 510(k) is a change in the frequency of the QC testing
recommendations specified in the labeling. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the
modified device has not changed.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences)
Similarities
Feature Predicate device Modified Device
Intended Use/ Indications for Use The BioPlex® 2200 MMRV IgG kit is Same
a multiplex flow immunoassay
intended for the qualitative detection
of IgG antibodies to Measles,
Mumps, Rubella and Varicella-
zoster virus (VZV) in human serum
and EDTA or heparinized plasma.
The BioPlex 2200 MMRV IgG kit is
intended for use with the Bio-Rad
BioPlex 2200 System.
This kit is intended as an aid in the
determination of serological status
to Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and
VZV. This kit is not intended for use
in screening blood or plasma
donors.
The performance of this assay has
not been established for use in
neonatal, pediatrics and
immunocompromised patients, or
for use at point of care facilities.
Device Components Reagent Pack, Negative control, Same

[Table 1 on page 1]
Feature	Predicate device	Modified Device
Intended Use/ Indications for Use	The BioPlex® 2200 MMRV IgG kit is
a multiplex flow immunoassay
intended for the qualitative detection
of IgG antibodies to Measles,
Mumps, Rubella and Varicella-
zoster virus (VZV) in human serum
and EDTA or heparinized plasma.
The BioPlex 2200 MMRV IgG kit is
intended for use with the Bio-Rad
BioPlex 2200 System.
This kit is intended as an aid in the
determination of serological status
to Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and
VZV. This kit is not intended for use
in screening blood or plasma
donors.
The performance of this assay has
not been established for use in
neonatal, pediatrics and
immunocompromised patients, or
for use at point of care facilities.	Same
Device Components	Reagent Pack, Negative control,	Same

--- Page 2 ---
2
Multi- Analyte Positive controls and
Multiple Calibrators
Technical Specifications Analytical and Clinical Performance Same
Characteristics
Fundamental Scientific Technology Multiplex flow immunoassay Same
Differences
Feature Predicate device Modified Device
Frequency of Reagent Pack QC QC once per pack and per day QC once per day
Testing or per new
reagent pack lot
5. Design Control Activities Summary
a) Risk Analysis:
A Failure Modes and Effects Analysis was used to facilitate, capture and quantify potential impacts of
the Low Signal Pack (LSP) phenomenon. The severity of effects for each of the assays was
evaluated using 21 CFR 860 and IVDD (98/79/EC). Additionally potential misuse of the MMRV IgG
product was considered during the risk analysis.
b) Verification and Validation activities:
It was determined that proteases from mold and bacteria spiked into the reagent can cause low
signals during the development phase of the product. Additional verification and validation studies
were conducted by spiking the BioPlex 2200 MMRV IgG kit at room temperature (25 ºC) with mold
and bacterial filtrates (at 1:25, 1:50, 1:100 and 1:500 levels - v/v). The percent recovery ratios of the
QC controls were within the 80%-120% and the negative controls were within the specified range as
per the product specifications.
The results indicated that the assays (Measles, Mumps, Rubella or VZV IgG) in the MMRV IgG Kit
were not significantly affected by the microbial contaminants.
The Residual Risk acceptability criteria (RPN score) was established at < 19 for low level of concern
according to the submitter’s Risk Management Plan. It was determined that for each of the assays the
RPN score was within 9-12 , which is considered a low level of concern and hence does not require
any additional mitigation activity.
c) Declaration of Conformity
Two “Declaration of Conformity” statements were submitted duly signed by the responsible
individuals. The statements indicate that;
i) As required by the risk analysis, all verification and validation activities were performed by the
designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria
were met, and
ii) The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as
specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
Based on the conclusion of the risk management report, the modified QC procedure fulfills the
requirements of the specifications of the design control process. Therefore, the performance of the
modified QC test frequency is substantially equivalent to the current cleared kit.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Multi- Analyte Positive controls and
Multiple Calibrators	
Technical Specifications	Analytical and Clinical Performance
Characteristics	Same
Fundamental Scientific Technology	Multiplex flow immunoassay	Same

[Table 2 on page 2]
Feature	Predicate device	Modified Device
Frequency of Reagent Pack QC
Testing	QC once per pack and per day	QC once per day
or per new
reagent pack lot

--- Page 3 ---
3
Use Enclosure
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.