
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k111599
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for this premarket notification for
the addition of Linezolid to the VITEK 2 and VITEK 2 Compact Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Test (AST) Systems.
C. Measurand:
Linezolid concentrations of 2 and 4 µg/mL are included in the VITEK® 2 AST-ST
Linezolid card.
D. Type of Test:
The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) is determined using qualitative growth
based detection algorithm using predetermined growth threshold. The MIC reporting
result range of the card is ≤ 2– ≥8 µg/mL.
E. Applicant:
bioMerieux, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VITEK® 2 AST-ST Linezolid
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LON Class II 21 CFR 866.1645 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
VITEK® 2 Streptococcus Linezolid is designed for antimicrobial susceptibility
testing of Streptococcus species and is intended for use with the VITEK® 2 and
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LON			Class II			21 CFR 866.1645			Microbiology		

--- Page 2 ---
VITEK® 2 Compact Systems as a laboratory aid in the determination of in vitro
susceptibility to antimicrobial agents. VITEK® 2 Streptococcus Linezolid is a
qualitative test. Linezolid has been shown to be active against most strains of the
microorganisms listed below, according to the FDA label for this antimicrobial.
Active in vitro and in clinical infections
Streptococcus agalactiae
Streptococcus pneumoniae [including multi-drug resistant isolates (MDRSP) ]
Streptococcus pyogenes
2. Indication(s) for use:
VITEK® 2 Streptococcus Linezolid is designed for antimicrobial susceptibility
testing of Streptococcus species and is intended for use with the VITEK® 2 and
VITEK® 2 Compact Systems as a laboratory aid in the determination of in vitro
susceptibility to antimicrobial agents. VITEK® 2 Streptococcus Linezolid is a
qualitative test. Linezolid has been shown to be active against most strains of the
microorganisms listed below, according to the FDA label for this antimicrobial.
Active in vitro and in clinical infections
Streptococcus agalactiae
Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug resistant isolates [MDRSP])
Streptococcus pyogenes
The VITEK® 2 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) is intended to be used
with the VITEK® 2 Systems for the automated quantitative or qualitative
susceptibility testing of isolated colonies for the most clinically significant aerobic
gram-negative bacilli, Staphylococcus spp., Enterococcus spp., Streptococcus spp.
and clinically significant yeast.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
The current absence of resistant isolates precludes defining results other than
Susceptible. Isolates yielding MIC results suggestive of Nonsusceptible category
should be submitted to a reference laboratory for further testing.
The ability of the VITEK 2 AST-ST to detect resistance to Linezolid in S.
pneumoniae, S. agalactiae, and S. pyogenes is unknown because resistant
organisms were not available at the time of comparative testing.
4. Special instrument requirements:
For use with the VITEK® 2 and VITEK® 2 Compact Systems
2

--- Page 3 ---
I. Device Description:
The VITEK 2 AST card is essentially a miniaturized, abbreviated and automated
version of the doubling dilution technique for determining the minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC). Each VITEK 2 AST card contains 64 wells. A control well
which only contains microbiological culture media is resident on all cards. The
remaining wells contain premeasured portions of a specific antibiotic combined with
culture media. The bacterial or yeast isolate to be tested is diluted to a standardized
concentration with 0.45 – 0.5% saline before being used to rehydrate the
antimicrobial medium within the card. The VITEK 2 System automatically fills, seals
and places the card into the incubator/reader. The VITEK 2 Compact has a manual
filling, sealing and loading operation. The VITEK 2 Systems monitor the growth of
each well in the card over a defined period of time. At the completion of the
incubation cycle, a report is generated that contains the MIC value along with the
interpretive category result for each antibiotic contained on the card.
The VITEK 2 AST-ST Linezolid has the following concentrations in the card: 2, 4
μg/mL (equivalent standard method concentration by efficacy in μg/mL). The MIC
result range for the VITEK 2 card is ≤ 2 – ≥ 8 μg/mL.
The MIC ranges, interpretive criteria and equivalent concentrations are as follows:
Equivalent MIC Ranges and FDA/CLSI Categories
VITEK 2 Standard Method MIC* in µg/mL:
AST-ST Concentration by
Efficacy in µg/mL S* NS
Linezolid 2, 4 ≤ 2 -
* Currently only a “Susceptible” category is defined for Linezolid.
NS = Non-Susceptible
S = Susceptible: Attainable levels in blood or tissue on usual usage, including oral
administration when applicable.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITEK 2 AST-GP Amoxicillin for S. pneumoniae
2. Predicate K number(s):
k063597
3. Comparison with predicate:
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
VITEK 2
AST-ST	Equivalent
Standard Method
Concentration by
Efficacy in µg/mL	MIC Ranges and FDA/CLSI Categories
MIC* in µg/mL:	
		S*	NS
Linezolid	2, 4	≤ 2	-

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Determining Same
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents
Inoculation and test Isolated colonies of Same
organism Streptococcus species
Instrument Test are run on both the Same
VITEK 2 and VITEK 2
Compact Systems
Test Card The VITEK 2 card, Same
including base broth
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Test Method Automated qualitative Automated quantitative
antimicrobial antimicrobial
susceptibility test for susceptibility test for
use with the VITEK® 2 use with the VITEK® 2
and and
VITEK® 2 Compact VITEK® 2 Compact
Systems to Systems to
determine the in vitro determine the in vitro
susceptibility of susceptibility of
Streptococcus Streptococcus
species. species.
Antibiotic Linezolid-specific Amoxicillin-specific
concentrations concentrations
Reading algorithm Unique to Linezolid Unique to Amoxicillin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
“Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test
(AST) Systems; Guidance for Industry and FDA”
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/Guid
anceDocuments/ucm071462.pdf
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow
Aerobically, Approved Standard -8th Edition, Document M7-A8.
Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing – 19th Informational
Supplement, M100-S19.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			Determining
susceptibility to
antimicrobial agents			Same		
Inoculation and test
organism			Isolated colonies of
Streptococcus species			Same		
Instrument			Test are run on both the
VITEK 2 and VITEK 2
Compact Systems			Same		
Test Card			The VITEK 2 card,
including base broth			Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Test Method			Automated qualitative
antimicrobial
susceptibility test for
use with the VITEK® 2
and
VITEK® 2 Compact
Systems to
determine the in vitro
susceptibility of
Streptococcus
species.			Automated quantitative
antimicrobial
susceptibility test for
use with the VITEK® 2
and
VITEK® 2 Compact
Systems to
determine the in vitro
susceptibility of
Streptococcus
species.		
Antibiotic			Linezolid-specific
concentrations			Amoxicillin-specific
concentrations		
Reading algorithm			Unique to Linezolid			Unique to Amoxicillin		

--- Page 5 ---
L. Test Principle:
Automated growth based detection using attenuation of light measured by an optical
scanner. The optics used in the systems use visible light to directly measure organism
growth. Transmittance optics are based on an initial light reading of a well before
significant growth has begun. Periodic light transmittance samplings of the same
well measure organism growth by how much light is prevented from going through
the well. The VITEK 2 System monitors the growth of each well in the card over a
defined period of time. An interpretive call is made between 4 and 16 hours for a
“rapid” read but may be extended to 18 hours in some instances. At the completion of
the incubation cycle, a report is generated that contains the MIC value along with the
interpretive category result for each antibiotic on the card. The VITEK 2 AST-ST
Linezolid has the following concentrations in the card: 2, 4 μg/mL (equivalent
standard method concentration by efficacy in μg/mL). The MIC result range for the
VITEK 2 card is ≤ 2 – ≥ 8 μg/mL.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
A reproducibility study was conducted at three external clinical sites. Ten
Streptococcus species isolates were tested at each site and testing was
performed in triplicate over three days with the VITEK 2 AST-ST Linezolid
card. The testing was performed using both the manual dilution method and
the automated dilution mode. Testing was conducted on the VITEK 2
instrument.
Streptococci are highly susceptible to Linezolid and currently there are no
resistant strains. The MIC values were below the lowest concentration on the
VITEK 2 AST-ST for Linezolid and all ten isolates tested produced off scale
MIC results (≤ 2 µg/mL). In absence of on scale MIC results and because of
the limited (two) concentration range on the VITEK 2, a reproducibility based
on +/- one dilution is not possible and only a qualitative assessment based on
Category Agreement is made. All reproducibility isolates were inhibited at
concentrations in the susceptible range for Linezolid. Therefore, acceptable
reproducibility was demonstrated with a CA (S/NS) of 100% by both manual
dilution and automated dilution.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
5

--- Page 6 ---
The recommended Streptococcus pneumonia QC organism was tested on
every test occasion with the reference method and the VITEK 2 System.
Ancillary quality control testing was also performed. Two gram-positive
organisms were tested throughout comparative testing at each study site by the
reference method only. This was done to perform further quality control of the
broth microdilution panels using E. faecalis ATCC 29212 and S. aureus
ATCC 29213 which have a QC range of 1-4 µg/mL for Linezolid.
The reference method QC results were in range for every day tested. The
VITEK 2 was tested a sufficient number of times to demonstrate that the
system can produce acceptable QC results.
Quality Control was performed during the studies using both the auto-dilution
and the manual method of diluting the organisms on the VITEK 2 System.
Results demonstrated that methods were comparable.
Quality Control Results with the VITEK 2 System for Linezolid:
Concentration Auto Dilution Manual Dilution
Organism (µg/mL) Reference VITEK 2 Reference VITEK 2
Streptococcus ≤0.025
pneumonia 0.5
ATCC 49619 1 92 91
2* 90 182 89 179
Acceptable 4*
MIC range: 8*
0.5-2 µg/mL ≥16
* VITEK Card Result Range is ≤ 2 – ≥ 8
At least one Quality control organism was in control in the reference on all
days. Quality Control results for the VITEK 2 System using either inoculation
dilution method demonstrated that the VITEK 2 System could produce the
expected quality control results.
A similar QC study was conducted to evaluate the VITEK 2 Compact System.
Results were compared to the expected CLSI QC results. All results for the
VITEK 2 Compact System were within the expected QC ranges 100% of the
time.
Inoculum density control was monitored using the DensiChek2 instrument.
This was standardized weekly with all results recorded and in the expected
range.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Organism	Concentration
(µg/mL)			Auto Dilution						Manual Dilution					
				Reference			VITEK 2			Reference			VITEK 2		
Streptococcus
pneumonia
ATCC 49619
Acceptable
MIC range:
0.5-2 µg/mL	≤0.025														
		0.5													
		1			92						91				
		2*			90			182			89			179	
	4*														
	8*														
	≥16														

--- Page 7 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance was established through a clinical study which was conducted at
four external study sites. A total of 1425 clinical isolates were tested by
VITEK® 2 AST-ST Linezolid with the VITEK® 2 System. The majority of
the isolates were recently isolated from clinical specimens. Four hundred and
sixty-five of the 1425 clinical isolates tested were stock isolates (32.6%). A
challenge set consisting of 200 isolates was evaluated with VITEK® 2 AST-
ST Linezolid. Testing of clinical isolates was performed using the automated
method of inoculation and the challenge organisms were tested with both the
manual dilution and automatic dilution. Each isolate was tested by the VITEK
2 AST-ST Linezolid and the CLSI broth microdilution reference method. The
inoculum was prepared with direct colony suspension. A comparison was
provided to the reference method with the following agreement. Four major
errors were seen. No growth was observed in 9 isolates.
AutoDilution
CA CA #NS # #
Organism Group N % vmj maj
All Streptococcus species
CLINICAL 1412 99.7 0 0 4
CHALLENGE 200 100 0 0 0
COMBINED (CLINICAL
AND CHALLENGE) 1612 99.8 0 0 4
CA-Category Agreement NS-not susceptible
maj-major discrepancies
vmj-very major discrepancies
Essential agreement (EA) is when the VITEK 2 panels agree with the
reference test panel results exactly or within one doubling dilution of the
reference method. Category agreement (CA) is when the VITEK 2 panel
result interpretation agrees exactly with the reference panel result
interpretation. Evaluable EA is when the MIC result is on scale for both the
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
				CA			CA		#NS		#			#	
	Organism Group			N			%				vmj			maj	
All Streptococcus species															
CLINICAL			1412			99.7			0	0			4		
CHALLENGE			200			100			0	0			0		
COMBINED (CLINICAL
AND CHALLENGE)			1612			99.8			0	0			4		

--- Page 8 ---
VITEK 2 and the reference and have on-scale EA. No evaluation could be
made on the basis of essential agreement because the VITEK® 2 AST-ST
contained only two discrete concentrations of Linezolid and is therefore
considered a breakpoint panel. Performance was evaluated on the basis of CA.
A CA of 99.7% and 100 % was observed for clinical and challenge isolates,
respectively. Only 4 major errors were observed giving an error rate of 0.25%
that is well within the acceptable range defined in the AST Guidance
Document.
Performance of the VITEK® 2 and the VITEK® 2 Compact was also
evaluated with the same 200 challenge organisms using the manual dilution
method. Results from those two studies were identical and showed 100% CA.
Manual Dilution (Challenge only/ VITEK® 2 and the VITEK® 2 Compact)
CA CA #NS # #
Organism Group N % vmj maj
All Streptococcus 200 100 0 0 0
species
b. Matrix comparison:
Not Applicable
3. Clinical Studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
				CA			CA		#NS		#			#	
	Organism Group			N			%				vmj			maj	
All Streptococcus
species			200			100			0	0			0		

--- Page 9 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
FDA Interpretive criteria for Streptococcus species, including S. pneumoniae are:
S= ≤ 2 µg/mL, NS= *
* Currently only a “Susceptible” category is defined for Linezolid. Strains
yielding test results suggestive of a “nonsusceptible” category should be retested,
and if the result is confirmed, the isolate should be submitted to a reference
laboratory for further testing.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR section 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
9