
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k112029
B. Purpose for Submission:
Claim of previously cleared analytes (ALP, ALT/GPT, Gamma-GT and LDH) for use on
Elitech’s test system under Elitech’s label using previously cleared multi-analyte controls
and calibrators
C. Measurand:
Calibrators and assayed controls for ALP, ALT/GPT, Gamma-GT and LDH
D. Type of Test:
Calibrators and Quality Control Material
E. Applicant:
ELITech Clinical Systems, SEPPIM S.A.S.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ELITech Clinical Systems ELITROL I
ELITech Clinical Systems ELITROL II
ELITech Clinical Systems ELICAL 2
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JIX Class II 21 CFR 862.1150 Clinical
Calibrator, Multi-analyte Calibrator Chemistry (75)
mixture
JJY Class I, 21 CFR 862.1660 Clinical
Multi-analyte controls, all reserved Quality control Chemistry (75)
kinds (assayed) material (assayed and
unassayed)
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code				Classification				Regulation Section				Panel		
JIX
Calibrator, Multi-analyte
mixture				Class II				21 CFR 862.1150
Calibrator				Clinical
Chemistry (75)			
JJY
Multi-analyte controls, all
kinds (assayed)				Class I,
reserved				21 CFR 862.1660
Quality control
material (assayed and
unassayed)				Clinical
Chemistry (75)			

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indication for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
ELITech Clinical Systems ELICAL 2 is a multi-parametric calibrator for in vitro
diagnostic use in the calibration of quantitative ELITech Clinical Systems methods on
ELITech Clinical Systems Selectra analyzers.
ELITech Clinical Systems ELITROL I & ELITROL II are multi-parametric control sera
for in vitro diagnostic use in quality control of quantitative ELITech Clinical Systems
methods on ELITech Clinical Systems Selectra analyzers.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
ELITech Clinical Systems Selectra analyzers
I. Device Description:
ELITech Clinical Systems purchases the below described products from a commercial
vendor and re-label it for sale for use with the Elitech test systems. These products were
cleared under k033501 and k041227 sponsored by the supplier. Elitech did not change the
content and the packaging except the labeling change.
ELITech Clinical Systems ELICAL 2 is a lyophilized calibrator based on human serum
containing constituents to ensure optimal calibration.
ELITech Clinical Systems ELITROL I and ELITROL II are two level quality control
products consisting of lyophilized human serum containing constituents at desired levels.
ELICAL 2, Elitrol I and Elitrol II are prepared exclusively from the blood of donors tested
individually and found to be negative for HbsAg and to antibodies to HCV and
HIV according to FDA-approved methods or methods in compliance with the
European Directive 98/79/EC, Annex II, List A.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
Roche Calibrator f.a.s.
Roche Precinorm U/Precipath U
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
Roche Calibrator f.a.s. (k033501)
Roche Precinorm U/Precipath U (k041227)
3. Comparison with predicate:
Characteristic ELICAL 2 Roche Calibrator f.a.s.
(New Device) (Predicate Device, k033501)
Similarities
Intended Use Same Is a multi-parametric calibrator used for
calibration of quantitative assays
Format Same Lyophilized
Levels Same 1
Handling Same Reconstitute with exactly 3.0 mL
distilled or deionized water.
Matrix Same Human Serum
Stability Same Unopened:
• Store at 2-8oC until expiration date
Reconstituted:
Between 15-25 °C : 12 hours
Between 2-8 °C : 5 days
Between (-25)-(-15) °C : 4 weeks
(when frozen once)
Differences
Labeling Labeled under ELITech Labeled under Roche
Claim 9 of the 16 analytes 16 analytes
Characteristic Elitrol I/Elitrol II Roche Precinorm U/Precipath U
(New Device) (Predicate Device, k041227)
Similarities
Intended Use Same Are multi-parametric control sera used in
quality control of quantitative assays
Format Same Lyophilized
Matrix Same Human serum
Levels Same 2
Handling Same Reconstitute with exactly 5.0 mL
distilled or deionized water
Stability Same Unopened:
• Store at 2-8oC until expiration date
Reconstituted:
Between 15-25 °C : 12 hours
Between 2-8 °C : 5 days
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristic		ELICAL 2			Roche Calibrator f.a.s.	
		(New Device)			(Predicate Device, k033501)	
Similarities						
Intended Use	Same			Is a multi-parametric calibrator used for
calibration of quantitative assays		
Format	Same			Lyophilized		
Levels	Same			1		
Handling	Same			Reconstitute with exactly 3.0 mL
distilled or deionized water.		
Matrix	Same			Human Serum		
Stability	Same			Unopened:
• Store at 2-8oC until expiration date
Reconstituted:
Between 15-25 °C : 12 hours
Between 2-8 °C : 5 days
Between (-25)-(-15) °C : 4 weeks
(when frozen once)		
Differences						
Labeling	Labeled under ELITech			Labeled under Roche		
Claim	9 of the 16 analytes			16 analytes		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Characteristic		Elitrol I/Elitrol II			Roche Precinorm U/Precipath U	
		(New Device)			(Predicate Device, k041227)	
Similarities						
Intended Use	Same			Are multi-parametric control sera used in
quality control of quantitative assays		
Format	Same			Lyophilized		
Matrix	Same			Human serum		
Levels	Same			2		
Handling	Same			Reconstitute with exactly 5.0 mL
distilled or deionized water		
Stability	Same			Unopened:
• Store at 2-8oC until expiration date
Reconstituted:
Between 15-25 °C : 12 hours
Between 2-8 °C : 5 days		

--- Page 4 ---
Between (-25)-(-15) °C : 4 weeks
(when frozen once)
Differences
Labeling Labeled under ELITech Labeled under Roche
Claim 9 of the 16 analytes 16 analytes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
Components Traceability
ALP IFCC formulation (Tietz, 1983), manual
measurement
ALT-GPT ERM-AD454/IFCC
Gamma-GT Original formulation (Persijn/v.d. Slik, 1976),
manual measurement
LDH IFCC formulation (Schumann, 2002), manual
measurement
Abbreviations:
ERM: European Reference Material
IFCC = International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine
Value Assignment:
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
		Between (-25)-(-15) °C : 4 weeks
(when frozen once)
Differences		
Labeling	Labeled under ELITech	Labeled under Roche
Claim	9 of the 16 analytes	16 analytes

[Table 2 on page 4]
Components	Traceability
ALP	IFCC formulation (Tietz, 1983), manual
measurement
ALT-GPT	ERM-AD454/IFCC
Gamma-GT	Original formulation (Persijn/v.d. Slik, 1976),
manual measurement
LDH	IFCC formulation (Schumann, 2002), manual
measurement

--- Page 5 ---
EliTech performs verification on the provided calibrator values using Elitech’s test
systems on each calibrator lot. If the value provided by the manufacturer verifies, then it
is used on the value sheet provided to the end user. When each new lot is received, the
new lot is used to calibrate the system using the provided value. Then already-validated
lots of control and an earlier lot of ELICAL are run as unknowns in quadruplicate on 2
Selectra analyzers, using 2 reagent lots, and 3 test vials per lot. If the result (mean of 48
tests) obtained is within the specification, +/-9% of the previously assigned bottle values,
then the supplier’s value is accepted.
Value assignment for the ELITROL I and ELITRIOL II control solutions was performed
by quadruplicate runs on 2 Selectra analyzers, using 2 reagent lots, and 3 test vials per
lot. The mean analyte value is calculated and a target value is assigned. The labeling
states that obtained control solution values should fall within the specified range provided
on lot-specific value sheets and that laboratories should establish appropriate quality
control procedures when using this product for its intended use. The labeling also states
that laboratories should recalibrate when reagents lots change, when quality control
results fall out of range, and after a maintenance operation.
Stability:
Calibrator material is purchased from a commercial vendor (previously cleared under
k033501) with no change to the content and the packaging except the labeling change.
The sponsor claimed the following stability determined by the provider: ELICAL 2 is
stable until the expiration date printed on the label when stored at 2-8°C prior to
reconstitution. After reconstitution the stability is 8 hours when stored at 15-25°C, 2 days
at 2-8°C or 4 weeks (when frozen once) at -25°and -15°C.
Control material is purchased from a commercial vendor (previously cleared under
k041227) with no change to the content and the packaging except the labeling change.
The sponsor claimed the following stability determined by the provider: Before
reconstitution, the shelf-life of the ELITech Clinical Systems Elitrol I and Elitrol II is 30
months at 2-8°C. After reconstitution the stability is 12 hours when stored at 15-25°C, 5
days when stored at 2-8°C or 4 weeks (when frozen once) at -25° and -15° C.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6