
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k112424
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for this 510(k) for Staphylococcus
aureus (SA), Staphylococcus epidermidis (SE) and mecA-mediated
methicillin/oxacillin resistance of SA-positive and SE-positive from positive blood
cultures.
C. Measurand:
Staphylococcus aureus (gyrB), Staphylococcus epidermidis (hsp60), and mecA
D. Type of Test:
Nucleic Acid Test, DNA, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and/or
mecA, qualitative
E. Applicant:
Nanosphere, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Verigene
®
Staphylococcus Blood Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test
Verigene® System (Verigene Reader, Verigene Processor SP)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1640 Antimicrobial susceptibility test powder
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NQX- Nucleic acid amplification test, DNA, methicillin resistant Staph aureus,
direct specimen

--- Page 2 ---
NSU- Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
4. Panel:
83- Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Verigene® Staphylococcus Blood Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test
performed using the sample-to-result Verigene System is a qualitative,
multiplexed in vitro diagnostic test for the simultaneous detection and
identification of potentially pathogenic gram-positive bacterial species
Staphylococcus aureus ("SA") and Staphylococcus epidermidis ("SE") which may
cause bloodstream infection (BSI). In addition, the BC-S test detects the mecA
resistance marker inferring mecA-mediated methicillin/oxacillin resistance. In
mixed growth, the BC-S Test does not specifically attribute mecA-mediated
methicillin/oxacillin resistance to either SA or SE.
The BC-S test is performed directly on positive blood culture using BACTECTM
Plus Aerobic/F and BacT/ALERT FA FAN® blood culture bottles, which contain
gram-positive cocci in clusters (GPCCL) observed on Gram stain. Sub-culturing
of positive blood cultures is necessary to recover organisms for susceptibility
testing, differentiation of mixed growth, association of the mecA gene to an
organism, or for epidemiological typing.
The BC-S test is indicated for use in conjunction with other clinical and
laboratory findings, such as culture, to aid in the diagnosis of bacterial
bloodstream infections; however, it is not used to monitor bloodstream infections.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Verigene® Staphylococcus Blood Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test
performed using the sample-to-result Verigene System is a qualitative,
multiplexed in vitro diagnostic test for the simultaneous detection and
identification of potentially pathogenic gram-positive bacterial species
Staphylococcus aureus ("SA") and Staphylococcus epidermidis ("SE") which may
cause bloodstream infection (BSI). In addition, the BC-S test detects the mecA
resistance marker inferring mecA-mediated methicillin/oxacillin resistance. In
mixed growth, the BC-S Test does not specifically attribute mecA-mediated
methicillin/oxacillin resistance to either SA or SE.
The BC-S test is performed directly on positive blood culture using BACTECTM
Plus Aerobic/F and BacT/ALERT FA FAN® blood culture bottles, which contain

--- Page 3 ---
gram-positive cocci in clusters (GPCCL) observed on Gram stain. Sub-culturing
of positive blood cultures is necessary to recover organisms for susceptibility
testing, differentiation of mixed growth, association of the mecA gene to an
organism, or for epidemiological typing.
The BC-S test is indicated for use in conjunction with other clinical and
laboratory findings, such as culture, to aid in the diagnosis of bacterial
bloodstream infections; however, it is not used to monitor bloodstream infections.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
Verigene System
®
I. Device Description:
The Verigene Staphylococcus Blood Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test is a molecular
assay which relies on detection of specific nucleic acid targets in a microarray format.
For each of the bacterial nucleic acid sequences detected by the BC-S test, Capture
and Mediator oligonucleotides are utilized for gold nanoparticle probe-based endpoint
detection. The Capture oligonucleotides bind to a specific portion of the nucleic acid
target and are themselves bound onto a substrate in microarray. The Mediator
oligonucleotides bind to a different portion of the same nucleic acid target and allow
binding of a gold nanoparticle probe to a portion complementary to a gold
nanoparticle probe. Specific silver enhancement of the bound gold nanoparticle
probes at the capture sites results in gold-silver aggregates that scatter light with high
efficiency.
The BC-S test is performed on the Verigene System, a fully automated, bench-top
molecular diagnostics workstation. The Verigene System consists of two components:
the Verigene Reader and the Verigene Processor SP. The BC-S test utilizes single-use
disposable test consumables and a self-contained Verigene Test Cartridge for each
sample tested. For the BC-S test, the Verigene System allows automated nucleic acid
extraction from Gram positive bacteria-containing blood culture specimens and target
detection of bacteria-specific DNA.
The Reader is the Verigene System’s user interface, which serves as the central
control unit for all aspects of test processing and results generation. The Reader’s
graphical user interface guides the user through test processing and test results using a
barcode scanner.
The user inserts the Test Cartridge into the Verigene Processor SP, which executes
the test procedure, automating the steps:

--- Page 4 ---
(1) Sample Preparation – Cell lysis and magnetic bead based bacterial DNA isolation
from blood culture samples and
(2) Verigene Hybridization Test – Detection and identification of bacterial-specific
DNA in a microarray format by using gold nanoparticle probe-based technology.
After test processing is complete, to obtain the test results the user removes the Test
Cartridge from the Processor SP, removes the reagent pack from the substrate holder, and
inserts the substrate holder into the Reader for analysis. Light scatter from the capture
spots is imaged by the Reader and intensities from the microarray spots are used to make
decisions regarding the presence (Detected) or absence (Not Detected) of a bacterial
nucleic acid sequence/analyte.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood Culture Assay (Cepheid)
Verigene® Respiratory Virus Nucleic Acid Test
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k082140
k092566

--- Page 5 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Device Predicate
Item Verigene® Staphylococcus Blood Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood
Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test Culture Assay
(k082140)
Similarities
Intended Use Qualitative in vitro diagnostic test Same
for the detection and identification
of Staphylococcus aureus (SA) and
methicillin resistant Staphylococcus
aureus
Test Cartridge Disposable single-use, multi- Same
chambered fluidic cartridge
Nuclei Acid MRSA-mecA Same
Target
Specimen Positive blood culture, determined Same
as Gram positive cocci in clusters
(GPCCL) by Gram stain
Sample Prep Automated DNA extraction Same
Quality Control Internal procedural/instrument Same
quality controls; Internal negative
Control, Sample processing control,
external positive and negative assay
controls
Interpretation of Diagnostic Software/Decision Same
Results Algorithm
Differences
Intended Use Detection of S. epidermidis Detection of S. aureus
Sample size 350 µL 50 µL
Time to Result ~ 2.5 hrs ~ 50 min
Detection Gold/Ag nanoparticle probe Fluorogenic RT target-specific
Method detection of bacterial-specific DNA hybridization probe amplicon
on complementary oligo-microarray detection
Software Custom-embedded software GeneXpert Dx System
running under the Micro-C/OS Software
realtime operating system
Reader Optical intensities analyzed adter I-CORE thermocycler and
target-specific hybridization of detection by fluorogenic
probes target- specific hybridization.
Nuclei Acid SA- tuf SA- spa
Target SE- hsp60 MRSA- SCCmec
mecA

[Table 1 on page 5]
				Device			Predicate	
								
	Item			Verigene® Staphylococcus Blood			Xpert™ MRSA/SA Blood	
				Culture (BC-S) Nucleic Acid Test			Culture Assay	
							(k082140)	

--- Page 6 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
The BC-S is performed on the Verigene System, a molecular diagnostics consisting
of two instruments: the Verigene Processor SP and the Verigene Reader. The
Verigene Processor SP automates the following steps of the BC-S:
i. Sample Preparation
Magnetic bead-based bacterial DNA isolation from positive blood culture
specimens
ii. Verigene Hybridization
Hybridization of the bacterial DNA to the test substrate in the Processor SP
Detection and identification of the hybridized bacterial DNA are by the Verigene
Reader, using gold nanoparticle probe-based detection technology. The Verigene
Reader also serves as the user interface. It stores and tracks sample information
throughout the assay process, and it also analyzes test results once the assay is
complete.
The Verigene Processor SP utilizes the single-use consumables to perform the BC-S,
including Verigene BC-S Test Kits (BC-S Test Cartridge and BC-S Extraction
Trays), and Utility Kits. A separate Tip Holder Assembly contains two pipette tips
that are used to transfer and mix reagents during the assay. The user tests a sample by
loading the single-use disposables into the Verigene Processor SP and pipetting the
sample into the Extraction Tray. The user initiates the test protocol on the Verigene
Reader by scanning or entering the barcode ID located on the Test Cartridge along
with sample information. Following assay completion, the user collects data on the
Verigene Reader by scanning the barcode ID on the Test Cartridge and inserting it
into the Verigene Reader for analysis.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The Reproducibility Study was conducted at three external sites and the
Precision Study at one site. The panel comprised of twelve (12) specimens
consisting of pure isolates grown in blood culture bottles until bottle positivity
and bottle positivity plus an additional 8 hours at three external sites in

--- Page 7 ---
duplicates twice daily by two operators for five days. The specimens included
2 levels of 2 different MRSA strains, 2 levels of a MRSE strain, 2 negative
controls (1 blood culture media only and 1 bacterial), 2 levels of an SA strain,
and 2 levels of an MSSE strain. Each specimen was tested in duplicate twice
daily by two operators for twelve days (precision) and five days
(reproducibility). The study demonstrated reproducibility across multiple
reagents lots, days, operators, runs, instruments and replicates.
Precision and Reproducibility Sample Panel Composition
Of the 1296 samples tested in the precision and reproducibility study, the percent
agreement for all panel members for the combined sites was 100% (96.6% -
100%) 95% CI. There were 15 “No Calls” and 8 “pre-analytical” errors in the
study. All of these samples were tested successfully on repeat testing.

--- Page 8 ---
Precision and Reproducibility Study Results- Agreement by Panel Member
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Assay Controls
The BC-S is performed using single-use disposable reagent trays and
cartridges, in which all reagents are prepackaged to prevent reagent
dispensing errors. Several levels of controls are built into the BC-S to
ensure that failures at any procedural step of the BC-S are identified
during the procedure.
Internal Controls
An internal processing control, designated “IC1”, comprises a non-specific
target organism Bacillus subtilis, a Gram-positive bacterium with an intact
genome. It is automatically added to each sample in the processor
immediately prior to Sample Extraction. The IC1 functions as a complete
assay control, the primary purpose of which is to monitor failures likely to
be attributable to the sample preparation step (i.e., lysis and nucleic acid

--- Page 9 ---
extraction); it also functions as non-specific target hybridization/detection
control.
A second internal processing control, designated “IC2”, comprises an
assay-specific single-stranded DNA target present in the Sample
Hybridization Mix reagent and is added by the System to each sample as a
means to monitor hybridization inhibition (due to sample- or process-
related inhibitors or reagent failures).
For each test performed, both controls (IC1 and IC2) must yield correct
results to enable reporting of a valid test result.
External Controls
Culture confirmed Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis,
and mecA-gene positive blood culture should be tested at least once per
week and/or under the following circumstances:
· Instrument installation, test validation, and when troubleshooting is
necessary
· Performance verification for receipt of a new set/lot of
consumables
· When the integrity of consumable storage conditions is in question
All external quality control requirements and testing should be performed
in conformance with local, state, and federal regulations or accreditation
organizations as applicable and should follow the user’s laboratory’s
standard quality control procedures.
There were 16 “No calls” and three “pre-analysis error” (pre-ae) in the
study, resulting initial call rate of 95.2% (316/332), final call rate 100%,
pre-ae failure rate of 0.9% (3/332).
d. Detection limit:
Limit of Detection Study
Analytical sensitivity was determined with a set of S. aureus and S.
epidermidis strains both with and without methicillin resistance (mecA).
The strains for methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) included
representative SCCmec types. The limit of detection (LOD) was assessed
and confirmed by using bacterial strains with established titers. For each
strain, the dilution series began with the sample obtained at ‘bottle
positivity’ by the BACTEC resin blood culture bottles. The dilution series
were prepared by using a diluent matrix that comprised blood culture
broth containing charcoal, human blood, and a common commensal skin
bacterium at a minimum concentration of ~107 CFU/mL. Each dilution
was tested in replicates of 4. The putative LOD was the lowest
concentration level where all the replicates for the analyte were

--- Page 10 ---
‘Detected’. Once the putative LOD was established, 20 replicate samples
were tested to confirm the LOD.
LOD
Strain Designation SCCmec
Bacteria Type (Source ID) ATCC Type PFGE Conc, Confirmati on
(CFU/mL) Results
MRSA252 BAA-1720 II USA200 4.6x105 20/20
S. aureus (MRSA)
GA217 BAA-1762 IV b USA300 3.7x105 20/20
HDE288 BAA-42 VI USA800 4.7x105 20/20
E2125 BAA-38 I USA500 3.7x105 20/20
HUSA304 BAA-39 III Unnamed 2.1x105 20/20
HFH-30032 BAA-1688 V Unnamed* 5.5x105 20/20
F182 43300 II N/A 3.0 x105 19/20
96308 BAA-1749 N/A USA900 1.9x105 20/20
S. aureus (SA)
MSSA476 BAA-1721 N/A USA400 5.7x105 20/20
RP62A 35984 N/A N/A 7.5x106 20/20
S. epidermidis (MRSE)
4477-2 700565 N/A N/A 2.0x106 19/20
PCI1200 12228 N/A N/A 2.7x106 20/20
S. epidermidis (SE)
15290 700583 N/A N/A 6.9x106 20/20
*NotUSA100-1100
Analytical Inclusivity
The inclusivity study included 99 MRSA strains (65 representative NARSA
strains), 18 methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (SA), eight borderline
oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (BORSA) strains, six methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE), and seven methicillin-sensitive
Staphylococcus epidermidis (SE). Separately, in silico analysis was performed
by aligning the assay probes for each of the above strains against available
GenBank sequence entries to ensure that the BC-S is able to detect these
strains. All the strains were grown in blood culture bottles in automated blood
culture instruments to bottle positivity. Samples were tested for purity and
counted to estimate concentration (CFU/mL) and finally tested in duplicates
with the BC-S. All results were as expected.
Heterogeneous Resistance
The heterogeneous resistant S. aureus ATCC 43300 was included in the LoD
studies.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross-Reactivity
The analytical specificity (exclusivity) study assessed potential cross-
reactivity of organisms phylogenetically related to panel organisms detected
by the BC-S as well as those present as contaminants in blood culture

[Table 1 on page 10]
Bacteria Type	Strain Designation
(Source ID)	ATCC	SCCmec
Type	PFGE	LOD	
					Conc,
(CFU/mL)	Confirmation
Results
S. aureus (MRSA)	MRSA252	BAA-1720	II	USA200	4.6x105	20/20
	GA217	BAA-1762	IV b	USA300	3.7x105	20/20
	HDE288	BAA-42	VI	USA800	4.7x105	20/20
	E2125	BAA-38	I	USA500	3.7x105	20/20
	HUSA304	BAA-39	III	Unnamed	2.1x105	20/20
	HFH-30032	BAA-1688	V	Unnamed*	5.5x105	20/20
	F182	43300	II	N/A	3.0 x105	19/20
S. aureus (SA)	96308	BAA-1749	N/A	USA900	1.9x105	20/20
	MSSA476	BAA-1721	N/A	USA400	5.7x105	20/20
S. epidermidis (MRSE)	RP62A	35984	N/A	N/A	7.5x106	20/20
	4477-2	700565	N/A	N/A	2.0x106	19/20
S. epidermidis (SE)	PCI1200	12228	N/A	N/A	2.7x106	20/20
	15290	700583	N/A	N/A	6.9x106	20/20

--- Page 11 ---
specimens. There were 157 bacteria (115 gram-positive, 40 gram-negative,
one attenuated Mycobacterium tuberculosis, one Mycoplasma pneumoniae),
and six yeast strains. No cross-reactivity was observed.
Interference Study
The analytical specificity (interference) studies included strains of MRSA,
SA, MRSE, and SE. They were tested with hemoglobin, triglycerides,
bilirubin, gamma-globulin, and SPS at concentrations approximately one log
higher than reference levels. The four strains were grown in several different
BACTEC/F (Plus/Aerobic; Plus/Anaerobic; Standard/10 Aerobic; and PEDS
Plus) and BacT/Alert (SA Aerobic, FA FAN Aerobic and PF Pediatric FAN)
blood culture bottles. Negative blood culture bottles were also tested. For
each condition, the interferents or negative blood culture bottles were tested in
triplicates. No interference observed.
The BC-S is intended for use only with BACTECTM Plus Aerobic/F and
BacT/ALERT FA FAN® Aerobic blood culture bottles.
Fresh versus Frozen Samples Studies
The fresh versus frozen study was performed to assess the impact of freezing
specimens on the performance of the BC-S. Two MRSA, one strain of each
SA, MRSE, and SE were tested. Cultured samples were tested at baseline
(fresh/unfrozen) and two additional time points: bottle positivity and bottle
positivity plus 8 hours. After baseline testing, all the samples were subjected
to 2 freeze-thaw cycles, which involved freezing at or below -70 °C and
thawing at room temperature. Each time point for each condition
(fresh/unfrozen and 2 freeze-thaw cycles) was tested in replicates of four. The
BC-S results were not compromised when samples were exposed to up to two
freeze/thaw cycles.
Competitive Inhibition Studies
This study assessed competitive inhibition amongst combinations of
organisms detected by the BC-S when combined in pairs (binary) with a set of
related organisms commonly encountered in mixed blood culture infections.
Specifically, the impact of an organism at high titer (defined as “bottle
positivity + 8 hours”) on the detection of a second organism was assessed.
Representative strains of MRSA, SA, MRSE, and SE, each at the LOD for the
detection of that organism, were combined with the organism at the
concentration listed in the table below. Each binary combination was tested in
replicates of three. No evidence of competitive inhibition was observed for
either the samples at the LOD or for the high titer samples.
Competitive Inhibition Results of the Testing Binary Combinations

--- Page 12 ---
* This binary combination initially yielded a ‘Not Detected’ for SE in one replicate (1/3) but
gave the expected ‘Detected’ result in the remaining replicates (2/3). Repeat-testing of this
binary combination in replicates of 20 yielded a ‘Detected’ call for SE in all 20 tests,
suggesting that the initial ‘Not Detected’ result was likely due to expected variability at the
SE LOD and not due to competitive inhibition (see text for additional details).
Carryover/Cross-Contamination Study
A study was performed to assess the potential for carryover/cross-
contamination with the BC-S by alternately running ‘high positive’ samples
followed by ‘true negative’ samples. All of the high positive samples yielded
the expected ‘Detected’ results for the intended bacteria and ‘Not Detected’
results for the other analytes. The true negative samples gave a ‘Not
Detected’ call for all analytes.
f. Assay cut-off:
Sixty-five retrospective clinical samples were tested with the BC-S to verify the
cut-off values of a three-tiered filter algorithm determined with known reference
strains and by using logistic fit and ROC statistics. The cut-off values were
verified by 2340 data points.
2. Comparison studies:
The BC-S results were compared to the results of standard biochemical detection
techniques (i.e. coagulase, and VITEK 2 GP ID) for identification; Cefoxitin Disk
Diffusion for mecA mediated methicillin resistance:
S. aureus
≤21 mm mecA (+)
≥22 mm mecA (-)

--- Page 13 ---
S. epidermidis
≤24 mm mecA (+)
≥25 mm mecA (-)
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
The clinical study was conducted at five external study sites. There were 330
culture-positive, gram-positive cocci in clusters (GPCCL) blood culture sample
BC-S results compared with results from standard biochemical detection
techniques. The results for S. aureus demonstrated a positive and negative
agreement of 100%. The results for S. epidermidis demonstrated a positive and
negative agreement of 97.0% and 99.6% respectively. The results for mecA
demonstrated a positive agreement of 98.6% and a negative agreement of 98.8%
respectively. The initial call rate in the study was 95.2% (16 initial no-call
results), and the final call rate was 100%.
a. Clinical Sensitivity/:
BC-S vs. Conventional Culture results
Staphylococcus aureus Culture Percent Agreement
(SA) SA + SA- Total
Verigene SA + 124 0 124 Positive Agreement=100%
BC-S
(95%CI: 97.1 -100)
SA- 0 206 206 Negative Agreement=100%
(95%CI: 98.2 -100)
Total 124 206 330
BC-S vs. Conventional Culture results
Staphylococcus Culture Percent Agreement
epidermidis (SE) SE + SE- Total
Verigene SE + 94 1b 95 Positive Agreement=97.0%
BC-S
(95%CI: 91.2 -99.4)
SE- 3a 232 235 Negative Agreement=99.6%
(95%CI: 97.6- 99.9)
Total 97 233 330
a
Three specimens identified as Staphylococcus spp. with BC-S and coagulase-negative
Staphylococcus by culture, while two of the three were S. epidermidis by Vitek 2 GP ID and one

--- Page 14 ---
was S. capitis/S. epidermidis by Vitek 2 GP ID
b One specimen identified as Staphylococcus epidermidis, mecA (+) with the BC-S and coagulase-
negative Staphylococcus by culture and S. hominis by Vitek 2 GP ID, cefoxitin disc (-) by culture
BC-S vs. Cefoxitin Disk Diffusion
mecA Cefoxitin Disk Diffusion Percent Agreement
mecA + mecA - Total
Verigene mecA + 137 1b 138 Positive Agreement=98.6%
BC-S
(95%CI: 94.9 -99.8)
mecA - 2a 81 83 Negative Agreement=98.8%
(95%CI: 93.4- 99.9)
Total 139 82 221c
a Two S. epidermidis specimens were identified as mecA (-) with the BC-S and cefoxitin disc (+)
by culture.
b One specimen identified as Staphylococcus epidermidis, mecA (+) with the BC-S and coagulase-
negative Staphylococcus by culture and S. hominis by Vitek 2 GP ID, cefoxitin disc (-) by culture.
c mecA results are only reported if Staphylococcus aureus or Staphylococcus epidermidis are
detected in the specimen.
b. Clinical Specificity:
See part 3 a above for Specificity data.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
(1) Census Bureau Regions and Divisions with State FIPS Codes; US Census Bureau.
http://www.census.gov/geo/www/us_regdiv.pdf. (20 June 2010).
(2) One specimen (A024) tested positive for SA, SE, and mecA

--- Page 15 ---
N. Instrument Name:
Verigene System (Verigene Processor SP and Verigene Reader)
®
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
The Verigene System allows random access, fully automated ‘sample to result’
operation. The Verigene System is comprised of two components: a Reader (user
interface, central control unit, optics for reading the absence or presence of bacterial
DNA on the microarray) and the Processor SP. The BC-S test, performed on the
Verigene System, involves two steps:
· Sample preparation-Cell lysis and magnetic bead-based bacterial DNA
isolation from blood culture samples
· Verigene Hybridization Test-Hybridization of bacterial-specific DNA to
capture oligonucleotides on a microarray, using gold nanoparticles probe-
based technology to aid detection.
Operationally, single use disposables (Extraction Tray, Utility Tray, and Test
Cartridge) are loaded into separate modules within the Processor SP. The only ‘user-
performed’ pipetting step required to perform the assay is the addition of the gram-
positive blood culture sample into the extraction tray. The sample preparation occurs
within the Processor SP’s Extraction Tray and is also aided by reagents present in the
Utility Tray, while the Verigene Hybridization Test occurs within the Test Cartridge.
An automated pipette using disposable pipette tips delivers and transfers reagents
during the assay.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types:
Yes __X____ or No ________
The results of the V&V testing of the result mask and other general updates were
provided in version 1.8.0b6 of the reader software.
3. Specimen Identification:
Specimens are labeled with a Barcode. The Processor SP and Reader detect the
specimen ID, the results are printed with this specimen identifier.

--- Page 16 ---
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Automated Verigene System
5. Calibration:
Not required
6. Quality Control:
A series of internal controls used in conjunction with procedural checks monitors
instrument functionality, performance, fluidics, reagent integrity, and result
determination, based on a pre-defined decision algorithm.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In
the “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not applicable
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.