
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k112603
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
p2PSA tri-level controls
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, chemiluminescent immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Beckman Coulter, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Access Hybritech p2PSA QC
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality control material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I (Reserved)
3. Product code:
JJX – Single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Access Hybritech p2PSA QC are tri-level controls intended for monitoring
system performance of immunoenzymatic procedures for the quantitative
measurement of [-2]proPSA isoform of Prostate Specific antigen (PSA) using the
Access Immunoassay Systems.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Access Immunoassay Systems (Access 2, UniCel DxI 800 and UniCel DxI 600)
and integrated workstations (DxC 600i, 880i, 860i, 660i and 680i)
I. Device Description:
The Access Hybritech p2PSA QC kit contains three 5.0 mL vials, one for each of the
three control levels (QC 1-3). For QC 1, the [-2]proPSA concentration 1 is ~20
pg/mL, 175 pg/mL for QC 2 and 1000 pg/mL for QC 3. The control base matrix is a
buffered bovine serum albumin with <0.1% sodium azide and 0.25% ProClin® 300.
A lot specific QC information card containing the lot number, the value assigned
mean and the value for one standard deviation is included.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s) and 510(k) number(s):
Access Hybritech free PSA QC (k993210)
2. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item New Predicate
The Access Hybritech The Access Hybritech free
p2PSA QC PSA QC
Intended Use Verify assay performance Same.
Instrumentation Access Immunoassay Same
Systems
Technology Chemiluminescent sandwich Same
immunoassay
Matrix Buffered bovine serum Same
albumin with preservatives
Form Ready to use Same
Shelf life 12 months Same
Storage temperature -20°C or colder Same
(unopened)
Storage temperature and 2-10°C for 60 days Same
shelf life after opening
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			New			Predicate	
				The Access Hybritech			The Access Hybritech free	
				p2PSA QC			PSA QC	
Intended Use			Verify assay performance			Same.		
Instrumentation			Access Immunoassay
Systems			Same		
Technology			Chemiluminescent sandwich
immunoassay			Same		
Matrix			Buffered bovine serum
albumin with preservatives			Same		
Form			Ready to use			Same		
Shelf life			12 months			Same		
Storage temperature
(unopened)			-20°C or colder			Same		
Storage temperature and
shelf life after opening			2-10°C for 60 days			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
The Access Hybritech The Access Hybritech free
p2PSA QC PSA QC
Analyte [-2]proPSA Free PSA
Antigen source Recombinant mammalian Seminal fluid
cell line
Kit configuration Three 5.0 mL vials, 1 vial Two 5.0 mL vials, 1 vial
per level per level
Analyte concentrations Tri-level Bi-level
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry and FDA staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material.
L. Test Principle:
The Access Hybritech p2PSA QC reagents are used to verify the performance of the
Access Hybritech p2PSA assay which is a two-site immunoenzymatic “sandwich”
chemiluminescent assay. A sample is added to a reaction vessel with mouse
monoclonal anti-PSA-alkaline phosphatase conjugate, paramagnetic particles coated
with a mouse monoclonal anti-[-2]proPSA antibody, and a blocking reagent. The
[-2]proPSA in the sample binds to the immobilized monoclonal anti-[-2]proPSA on
the solid phase while, at the same time, the monoclonal anti-PSA-alkaline
phosphatase conjugate reacts with different antigenic sites on the [-2]proPSA
molecule. After incubation in a reaction vessel, materials bound to the solid phase are
held in a magnetic field while unbound materials are washed away. Then, the
chemiluminescent substrate Lumi-Phos® 530 is added to the vessel and light
generated by the reaction is measured with a luminometer. The light production is
directly proportional to the concentration of [-2]proPSA in the sample. The amount
of analyte in the sample is determined from a stored, multi-point calibration curve.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The [-2]proPSA antigen is purified from a recombinant mammalian cell line
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
				The Access Hybritech			The Access Hybritech free	
				p2PSA QC			PSA QC	
Analyte			[-2]proPSA			Free PSA		
Antigen source			Recombinant mammalian
cell line			Seminal fluid		
Kit configuration			Three 5.0 mL vials, 1 vial
per level			Two 5.0 mL vials, 1 vial
per level		
Analyte concentrations			Tri-level			Bi-level		

--- Page 4 ---
from cell culture supernatant (VAV12-PSA008.6-CCS) and is traceable to an
internal reference preparation.
Value assignment:
For each new lot of the Access Hybritech p2PSA QC, samples from vials
from the beginning, middle and end of the fill process are tested in five
Access Hybritech p2PSA assays on 3 instruments with two lots of reagents.
The assays were calibrated using the reference calibrators. Each test control
sample was run in replicates of 5 resulting in a total of 75 replicates per
control level. The individual replicates were used to calculate the overall
mean concentration, standard deviation and %CV for each test level. The
observed mean concentration for each control level should be within 3% of
the actual mean.
Stability:
Shelf Life Stability: To verify the stability at the recommended unopened
storage condition at -20°C, the Access Hybritech p2PSA QC and three
commercial controls were assayed at multiple time points (0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and
13 months). Each sample was tested in duplicate using multiple lots of
reagents and calibrators and one calibration curve per time point on two
Access Immunoassay Systems. The %difference from the time zero
(baseline) was calculated. The acceptance criterion was the overall mean
%difference from baseline for each time point must be within ±10%. Data
showed the overall %difference from baseline at 12 months for 3 lots met the
specification. Stability studies are on-going and the claimed shelf life is 12
months at -20°C.
Open Vial Stability: To verify the stability of the Access Hybritech p2PSA QC
at the recommended opened storage conditions at 2-10°C, two lots of the
p2PSA QC and three commercial controls ([-2]proPSA concentrations of
2.26, 19.159 and 89.543 pg/mL) were assayed in replicates of 5 using one lot
of Access Hybritech p2PSA reagents and calibrators on the Access
Immunoassay Systems at multiple time points (0, 8, 14, 30, 60, 90 and 120
days) at an internal site. The QC dose values were converted to %of dose at
time zero (baseline). A linear regression line was fitted through the data and a
95% confidence interval was determined. The acceptance criterion was ≤10%
overall change in control dose. Results showed %change at 60 days was -
4.9% (95%CI: -6.4%,-3.4%). The claimed open vial stability is 60 days when
stored at 2-10°C.
Shipping Stability: The Access Hybritech p2PSA QC shipping stability was
tested at an internal site on one lot of QC using the Access 2 analyzer.
Stability was assessed at multiple time points following simulated summer
and winter shipping cycles. QC reagents were kitted and packaged according
to general shipping operation procedures. Packaged QC kits were subjected to
simulated summer conditions and simulated winter conditions. A non-cycled
4

--- Page 5 ---
control group of packaged QC kits were stored at the recommended storage
condition of 2-10°C. Summer cycled and winter cycled QC kits were stored
at 2-10°C following shipping simulation. QC kits subjected to summer
conditions, winter conditions, and the non-cycled reagents were tested at day
0 (baseline), day 30 and day 60. The differences between the cycled and non-
cycled QC materials using non-cycled Access Hybritech p2PSA reagent packs
and calibrators were analyzed by calculating
1. the mean dose responses for each QC level,
2. the percent difference of the QC dose obtained on the summer and winter
cycled QC vs. the non-cycled QC for each level,
3. an overall dose average percent for both summer and winter cycled QC
from the non-cycled controls.
The acceptance criterion was the grand mean recovery for the cycled QC must
be within ±10%. The grand mean recoveries at baseline, 30 days and 60 days
met the acceptance criterion indicating that the Access Hybritech p2PSA QC
is stable following shipping.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not Applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5

--- Page 6 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6