
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113177
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for 25-Hydroxyvitamin D assay
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Materials
E. Applicant:
Quantimetrix
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Quantimetrix Complete D 25-OH Vitamin D Control
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, reserved 21 CFR§862.1660 75 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Complete D 25-OH Vitamin D control is intended to monitor the
performance of clinical assays used to quantitate total 25-OH Vitamin D.
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJX			Class I, reserved			21 CFR§862.1660			75 Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
· For in vitro diagnostic use only
· For prescription use only
· DiaSorin Liaison users should dilute Level 1 and Level 2 by 75 % (3 parts
control to 1 part Liaison® Vitamin D Specimen Diluent).
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The Quantimetrix Complete D 25-OH Vitamin D Control is supplied liquid in two
levels and consists of a human serum matrix containing preservatives.
The Quantimetrix Complete D 25-OH Vitamin D Control is supplied in two levels;
each kit contains 3 vials of level 1 or level 2 per box. The controls are supplied as a
ready-to-use liquid, requiring no reconstitution. They are prepared in human serum
matrix spiked with 25-Hydroxyvitamin D and 25-Hydroxyvitamin D in order to
2 3
achieve the two levels. The preservatives have been added to inhibit microbial
growth.
The Quantimetrix Complete D 25-OH Vitamin D Control is prepared in a human
serum matrix and contains other human source materials. All blood donor units
comprising the serum pool have been tested and found nonreactive for hepatitis B
surface antigen, Hepatitis C and HIV 1 and 2 antibodies when tested by FDA
accepted methods. Handle these controls with the same precautions used when
handling any potentially infectious material.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin D Control
2. Predicate K number(s):
k110641
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Predicate Device New product
Control Name Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc.’s Complete D 25-OH Vitamin
Vitamin D Control (k110641) D Control
Intended Use Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin same
D Control is intended for use
as an assayed control serum to
monitor the precision of
laboratory testing procedures
for the analysis of Vitamin D.
Analyte 25-OH Vitamin D same
Matrix Human serum, protein Vitamin D depleted human
(bovine), purified biochemical serum, reagent grade
materials, and chemicals. chemicals and preservatives.
Proclin 300 and Gentamicin as
preservatives.
Differences
Predicate Device New product
Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc.’s Complete D 25-OH Vitamin
Vitamin D Control D Control
Volume 2.0mL (reconstituted) 3mL
Number of 3 2
Levels
Storage 12 months at 2 to 8° C 24 months at 2 to 8° C
(unopened)
Form Lyophilized Liquid
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Similarities							
				Predicate Device			New product	
Control Name			Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc.’s
Vitamin D Control (k110641)			Complete D 25-OH Vitamin
D Control		
Intended Use			Fujirebio Diagnostics Vitamin
D Control is intended for use
as an assayed control serum to
monitor the precision of
laboratory testing procedures
for the analysis of Vitamin D.			same		
Analyte			25-OH Vitamin D			same		
Matrix			Human serum, protein
(bovine), purified biochemical
materials, and chemicals.
Proclin 300 and Gentamicin as
preservatives.			Vitamin D depleted human
serum, reagent grade
chemicals and preservatives.		
	Differences							
			Predicate Device			New product		
			Fujirebio Diagnostics, Inc.’s
Vitamin D Control			Complete D 25-OH Vitamin
D Control		
Volume			2.0mL (reconstituted)			3mL		
Number of
Levels			3			2		
Storage
(unopened)			12 months at 2 to 8° C			24 months at 2 to 8° C		
Form			Lyophilized			Liquid		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The 25-OH Vitamin D2 and D3 are purchased from commercial vendors.
The Complete D® 25-OH Vitamin D Control is traceable to NIST reference
material SRM972.
Stability
Shelf life and open vial stability:
Real-time testing at 2-8ºC was conducted and is still on-going. The stability
study protocol and acceptance criteria have been reviewed and found to be
acceptable. The current real time and accelerated stability test results support
two year shelf life stability, one year open vial stability when stored at 2-8ºC
and 30 days open vial stability when stored at room temperature (18-25ºC).
Value Assignment
The control ranges as determined using LC-MS-MS, DiaSorin Liaison, LC-
MS-MS Isotope Dilution, IDS EIA and IDS-RIA assays are provided in the
assigned value sheet for each lot release. Control range was determined from
replicate measurements using IDS-RIA, IDS-EIA, LC-MS-MS Isotope
Dilution, DiaSorin Liaison, and LC-MS-MS. The ranges were determined as
mean +/- 2 SD around the mean for LC-MS-MS and DiaSorin Liasion; and as
+/- 20% CV around the mean for LC-MS-MS Isotope Dilution, IDS-EIA and
IDS-RIA assays.
In the labeling the sponsor recommends that each end user laboratory
establish its own means and acceptable ranges and use the assigned value
sheet as guidance only.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The control ranges for each assay are provided in the assigned value sheet for each lot
release.
The expected ranges have been established from inter-laboratory data. Each
laboratory should establish its own precision parameters.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5