
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113007
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for diabetes data management software accessory for use with compatible
cleared GM550 and GM250 Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems (k092052).
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Bionime Corporation. Bionime Diabetes Management System Software
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Bionime Diabetes Management System allows the transfer of blood glucose
readings from a compatible Bionime Rightest Glucose Meter to a PC via USB
cable.
The Data analysis features enable the user(s) to view and analyze blood glucose
readings from different meal times or time periods up to 90 days. Other features
including data tables, trend charts, pie charts, and printed reports are available for
viewing and analyzing these readings within the different time slots.
The system is comprised of two components. The first component is an
Installation CD with setup files for Bionime GP200 Diabetes Assistant Software
and Rightest PC Link Adapter Driver. The second component is GP550 PC Link
Adapter.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Bionime Diabetes Management System is an accessory to compatible Rightest
meters, which use specific test principles.
Operating System requirements for the Bionime Diabetes Management System
are: Windows XP Professional, Windows Vista Professional or Windows 7
Professional. The system requirements are as follows: (1) Microsoft Windows
personal computer, (2) CPU: 550 MHz Intel Pentium 3 or above, (3) DRAM: 512
or above, (4) HD: 600 MB or more, (5) Internet Explorer 7.0 or above, (6) USB
2.0 or above, (7) LCD screen with resolution of 1024x768 or above, (8) CD-ROM
drive and (9) a printer (Optional).
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission:
Yes or No X .
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
6. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Documentation:
Yes X or No .
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Glucose Test System NBW: Blood Class II 21 CFR § Clinical
Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over-the- (75)
Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Module Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
for Clinical Use Module for Clinical (75)
Use
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Bionime Diabetes Management System is an over-the-counter software
system for use by Health Care Professionals and Patients with diabetes as an aid
for managing diabetes. User(s) can transfer blood glucose readings from Rightest
Glucose meter(s) to a personal computer for the purpose of viewing, analyzing
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Device Name			Product Code			Classification			Regulation			Panel	
Glucose Test System			NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-the-
Counter			Class II			21 CFR §
862.1345			Clinical
Chemistry
(75)		
Calculator/Data
Processing Module
for Clinical Use			JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for Clinical
Use			Class I			21 CFR §
862.2100			Clinical
Chemistry
(75)		

--- Page 3 ---
and printing the glucose readings, as well as to backup and to recover users’
profile and data.
The Bionime Diabetes Management System is not intended to provide treatment
decisions, nor should it substitute professional opinion. All medical diagnoses and
treatment plans should be performed by a licensed healthcare professional.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For Over-the-Counter (OTC) use.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Predicate device name Predicate 510(k) number
Glucofacts Deluxe Diabetes Management Software k091820
Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
Bionime Diabetes Management (k091820)
System
The Bionime Diabetes Same
Intended Use
Management System is an over-
the-counter software system for
use by Health Care Professionals
and Patients with diabetes as an
aid for managing diabetes.
Meter Compatibility For use with supported glucose Same
meters
Download blood Yes Same
glucose meter readings
via USB interface cable
Set-up multiple patient Yes Same
databases
Create trending graphs Yes Same
and reports
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
EN 61326-1: 2006, Electrical equipment for measurement, control and
·
laboratory use – EMC requirements Part 1: General requirements for safety
Collateral standard: Electromagnetic compatibility Requirements and tests-
Edition 2.1; Edition 2:2001 consolidated with amendment 1:2004
EN 61326-2-6: 2006, Electrical equipment for measurement, control and
·
laboratory use – EMC requirements Part 2-6: Particular requirements.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Predicate device name			Predicate 510(k) number	
Glucofacts Deluxe Diabetes Management Software			k091820		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences								
	Item			Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
				Bionime Diabetes Management			(k091820)	
				System				
Intended Use			The Bionime Diabetes
Management System is an over-
the-counter software system for
use by Health Care Professionals
and Patients with diabetes as an
aid for managing diabetes.			Same		
Meter Compatibility			For use with supported glucose
meters			Same		
Download blood
glucose meter readings
via USB interface cable			Yes			Same		
Set-up multiple patient
databases			Yes			Same		
Create trending graphs
and reports			Yes			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
EN 60601-1-2:2001/A1: 2006, Medical electrical equipment – Part 1-2: General
·
requirements for safety – Collateral standard: Electromagnetic compatibility -
Requirements and tests
ISO 14971: 2007, Medical Devices- Application of risk management to medical
·
devices.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were presented in the
specific glucose meter clearance under k092052.
a. Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c. Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d. Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e. Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a) A usability study was performed with 29 lay-user participants with varying
demographics (age, sex, and education level) were included in a usability
study. Those study participants also completed a questionnaire in response to
whether the data transmission feature is easy to use. The sponsor concluded
that the user’s responses indicated that data transmission function was easy to
operate by following the instructions provided with the system.
b) The following documentation related to the software was reviewed and found
to be acceptable: level of concern, software description, device hazard
analysis, software requirements specifications, software design specification,
software development environment description, and verification and
validation testing.
c) The sponsor provided the results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability study which
indicated a Grade Level Score of 8th grade or below for the Bionime Diabetes
Management System User Manual.
4

--- Page 5 ---
d) The sponsors provided the appropriate documentation certifying that
electromagnetic testing (EMC) had been performed and the GP550 PC-Link
Adaptor were found compliant (EN 61326, EN 61326-2-6).
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5