
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113661
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Methamphetamine
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative and Semi-Quantitative Enzyme Immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Lin-Zhi International, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
LZI Methamphetamine Immunoassay
LZI Methamphetamine Drug of Abuse Calibrators
LZI Methamphetamine Drug of Abuse Controls
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
LAF Class II 21 CFR § 862.3610 Toxicology
Methamphetamine test system (91)
DLJ Class II 21 CFR § 862.3200 Toxicology
Clinical toxicology calibrator (91)
LAS Class I, 21 CFR § 862.3280 Toxicology
Reserved Clinical toxicology control (91)
material
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
LAF			Class II			21 CFR § 862.3610
Methamphetamine test system			Toxicology
(91)		
DLJ			Class II			21 CFR § 862.3200
Clinical toxicology calibrator			Toxicology
(91)		
LAS			Class I,
Reserved			21 CFR § 862.3280
Clinical toxicology control
material			Toxicology
(91)		

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The LZI Methamphetamine Enzyme Immunoassay is intended for the qualitative
and semi-quantitative determination of d-methamphetamine in human urine, at the
cutoff value of 500 ng/mL. The assay is designed for professional use with a
number of automated chemistry analyzers.
The semi-quantitative mode is for purposes of (1) enabling laboratories to
determine an appropriate dilution of specimen for confirmation by a confirmatory
method such as GCMS or LCMS or (2) permitting laboratories to establish quality
control procedures.
The LZI Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse (DAU) Calibrators are for use as
calibrators in the qualitative and semi-quantitative calibration of the LZI
Methamphetamine Enzyme Immunoassay at a cutoff value of 500 ng/mL.
The LZI Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse (DAU) Controls are for use as
assayed quality control materials to monitor the precision of the LZI
Methamphetamine Enzyme Immunoassay at a cutoff value of 500 ng/mL.
The assay provides only a preliminary analytical result. A more specific
alternative chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed
analytical result. Gas or liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS or
LC/MS) is the preferred confirmatory method. Clinical consideration and
professional judgment should be exercised with any drug of abuse test result,
particularly when the preliminary test result is positive.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Performance data was provided for Hitachi 717 analyzer. The assay can be used
on a clinical chemistry analyzer capable of measuring absorbance at 340
nanometers.
I. Device Description:
The LZI Methamphetamine Enzyme Immunoassay is a kit comprised of two reagents,
2

--- Page 3 ---
separately packed, but sold together in one kit (R1 and R2).
Reagent Description
R1 Contains mouse monoclonal anti-
methamphetamine antibody, glucose-6-
phosphate (G6P), nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide (NAD), stabilizers, and sodium
azide as a preservative.
R2 Contains d-methamphetamine labeled with
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
(G6PDH) in buffer with sodium azide as a
preservative.
The LZI Methamphetamine Enzyme Immunoassay calibrators and controls
designated for use at 500 ng/mL cutoff contain 0, 250, 375, 500, 625, 1,000, and
2,000 ng/mL of d-methamphetamine in human urine with less than 0.1% sodium
azide as preservative.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
LZI Amphetamines 500 Homogenous Enzyme Immunoassay
LZI Amphetamines 500 Drugs of Abuse Calibrators
LZI Amphetamines 500 Drugs of Abuse Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k102210
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences – Test Device
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
LZI Amphetamines
LZI Methamphetamine Enzyme 500 Homogenous
Immunoassay Enzyme
Immunoassay
(k102210)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Reagent	Description
R1	Contains mouse monoclonal anti-
methamphetamine antibody, glucose-6-
phosphate (G6P), nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide (NAD), stabilizers, and sodium
azide as a preservative.
R2	Contains d-methamphetamine labeled with
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
(G6PDH) in buffer with sodium azide as a
preservative.

[Table 2 on page 3]
Item	Candidate Device
LZI Methamphetamine Enzyme
Immunoassay	Predicate Device
LZI Amphetamines
500 Homogenous
Enzyme
Immunoassay
(k102210)

--- Page 4 ---
Intended Use The Methamphetamine Enzyme Same
Immunoassay is intended for the
qualitative and semi-quantitative
determination of d-methamphetamine in
human urine, at the cutoff value of 500
ng/mL. The assay is designed for
professional use with a number of
automated chemistry analyzers.
The semi-quantitative mode is for
purposes of (1) enabling laboratories to
determine an appropriate dilution of
specimen for confirmation by a
confirmatory method such as GCMS or
LCMS or (2) permitting laboratories to
establish quality control procedures.
The Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse
(DAU) Calibrators are for use as
calibrators in the qualitative and semi-
quantitative calibration of the
Methamphetamine Enzyme
Immunoassay at a cutoff value of 500
ng/mL.
The Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse
(DAU) Controls are for use as assayed
quality control materials to monitor the
precision of the Methamphetamine
Enzyme Immunoassay at a cutoff value
of 500 ng/mL.
The assay provides only a preliminary
analytical result. A more specific
alternative chemical method must be
used in order to obtain a confirmed
analytical result. Gas or liquid
chromatography/mass spectrometry
(GC/MS or LC/MS) is the preferred
confirmatory method. Clinical
consideration and professional judgment
should be exercised with any drug of
abuse test result, particularly when the
preliminary test result is positive.
Analytes d-methamphetamine d-amphetamine and d-
methamphetamine
Assay Type Qualitative and Semi-Quantitative Same
Cutoff value 500 ng/mL Same
Sample Urine Same
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Intended Use	The Methamphetamine Enzyme
Immunoassay is intended for the
qualitative and semi-quantitative
determination of d-methamphetamine in
human urine, at the cutoff value of 500
ng/mL. The assay is designed for
professional use with a number of
automated chemistry analyzers.
The semi-quantitative mode is for
purposes of (1) enabling laboratories to
determine an appropriate dilution of
specimen for confirmation by a
confirmatory method such as GCMS or
LCMS or (2) permitting laboratories to
establish quality control procedures.
The Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse
(DAU) Calibrators are for use as
calibrators in the qualitative and semi-
quantitative calibration of the
Methamphetamine Enzyme
Immunoassay at a cutoff value of 500
ng/mL.
The Methamphetamine Drugs of Abuse
(DAU) Controls are for use as assayed
quality control materials to monitor the
precision of the Methamphetamine
Enzyme Immunoassay at a cutoff value
of 500 ng/mL.
The assay provides only a preliminary
analytical result. A more specific
alternative chemical method must be
used in order to obtain a confirmed
analytical result. Gas or liquid
chromatography/mass spectrometry
(GC/MS or LC/MS) is the preferred
confirmatory method. Clinical
consideration and professional judgment
should be exercised with any drug of
abuse test result, particularly when the
preliminary test result is positive.	Same
Analytes	d-methamphetamine	d-amphetamine and d-
methamphetamine
Assay Type	Qualitative and Semi-Quantitative	Same
Cutoff value	500 ng/mL	Same
Sample	Urine	Same

--- Page 5 ---
Methodology Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA) Enzyme Linked
Immunoassay(ELISA)
Analyzer Clinical chemistry analyzer capable Same
of measuring absorbance at 340
nanometers
Detection 340 nanometers Same
Wavelength
Calibrators Five Levels (0, 250, 500, 1000, and Same
2,000)
Controls Two Levels (375 and 625 ng/mL) Same
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Clinical Chemistry Devices
L. Test Principle:
The assay is an Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA) based on competition between drug in
the sample and drug labeled with the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase
(G6PDH) for a fixed amount of antibody in the reagent. Enzyme activity decreases
upon binding to the antibody, and the drug concentration in the sample is measured in
terms of enzyme activity. In the absence of drug in the sample, methamphetamine-
labeled G6PDH conjugate is bound to antibody, and the enzyme activity is inhibited.
On the other hand, when free drug is present in the sample, antibody would bind to
free drug, the unbound methamphetamine-labeled G6PDH then exhibits its maximal
enzyme activity. Active enzyme converts nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)
to NADH, resulting in an absorbance change that can be measured
spectrophotometrically at 340 nm.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision studies were conducted on the Hitachi 717 analyzer using samples
containing methamphetamine. Studies were performed according to CLSI-
EP5. Samples were prepared by spiking a negative human urine pool with d-
methamphetamine at the following concentrations: zero drug (-100%), -75%, -
50%, and -25% below the cutoff, cutoff, and +25%, +50%, +75%, and +100%
above the cutoff. Samples were tested in 2 replicates per run, 2 runs per day
for 22 days, total n=88. Samples concentrations were confirmed by GC/MS.
Results of the studies are presented below:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Methodology	Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA)	Enzyme Linked
Immunoassay(ELISA)
Analyzer	Clinical chemistry analyzer capable
of measuring absorbance at 340
nanometers	Same
Detection
Wavelength	340 nanometers	Same
Calibrators	Five Levels (0, 250, 500, 1000, and
2,000)	Same
Controls	Two Levels (375 and 625 ng/mL)	Same

--- Page 6 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity across the range was confirmed by serially diluting a spike urine
pool containing d-methamphetamine to obtain the levels listed in the table
below. Each sample was assayed in 10 replicates on the Hitachi 717 analyzer
in semi-quantitative mode. The results were averaged and compared to the
expected result and the percent recovery was calculated. Results are presented
below:
6

--- Page 7 ---
Linear regression analysis of the results yielded the following:
y = 0.9791x – 2.8289, R2 = 0.9996
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Calibrators and controls were previously cleared (k102210) under a different
trade name. The calibrators and controls of this current submission and the
predicate only differ in trade name. See k102210 for calibrators and controls
traceability and stability information.
Labeling indicates to not use assay reagents, calibrators, or control materials
beyond the indicated expiration dates on labeled vials.
d. Detection limit:
Performance at low drug concentrations in the semi-quantitative assay was
characterized by determination of recovery (see section M1b above).
e. Analytical specificity:
Possible interference from endogenous compounds was evaluated using
pooled urine samples spiked with d-methamphetamine at levels ±25% of the
500 ng/mL cutoff. Interference was evaluated on the Hitachi 717 analyzer.
No positive or negative interference was observed when the following
endogenous compounds were tested at the physiological levels indicated in the
table:
7

--- Page 8 ---
Possible interference from specific gravity was evaluated using urine samples
containing d-methamphetamine at levels ±25% of the 500 ng/mL cutoff with
specific gravities ranging from 1.002 to 1.030. No positive or negative
interference due to specific gravity was observed.
To test for potential positive or negative interference from pH using urine samples
containing d-methamphetamine at levels ±25% of the 500 ng/mL cutoff were
evaluated at pH values of 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11. No positive or negative
interference due to pH was observed.
Cross reactivity of various potential interfering structurally related drugs was
tested by spiking a final concentration of up to 500,000 ng/mL of each
substance into drug-free urine. Final concentrations of drug compounds tested
were equivalent to the 500 ng/mL d-methamphetamine cutoff. Cross-reactivity
was evaluated with the assay’s calibrated dose-response curve. Results from
these studies are summarized below:
8

--- Page 9 ---
Cross-reactivity of non-structurally related compounds was evaluated by testing
compounds spiked into urine samples containing d-methamphetamine at levels ±25% of
the 500 ng/mL cutoff. Non-structurally related compounds were tested at the
concentration levels indicated in the table below. Cross-reactivity was evaluated with the
assay’s calibrated dose-response curve. Results from these studies are summarized
below:
9

--- Page 10 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
There is a 500 ng/mL cutoff concentration claimed for this assay. See section
M1a above for performance data around the cutoff.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The sponsor conducted a method comparison study to evaluate the
performance of the device for detection of d-methamphetamine by testing 95
unaltered samples (48 negative and 47 positive samples) on the Hitachi 717
analyzer. Results were compared to results obtained with GC/MS or LC/MS.
Studies were conducted in semi-quantitative and qualitative modes.
Equivalent results were obtained for both modes. Study results are
summarized below:
10

--- Page 11 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11