
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COM BINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113720
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Multi-analyte control materials
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Randox Laboratories Limited
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Randox Maternal Controls Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJY – Quality Class I, reserved 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
Control Material
(Assayed and
Unassayed)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJY – Quality
Control Material
(Assayed and
Unassayed)			Class I, reserved			862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
The Randox Maternal Controls Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 are intended for in vitro
diagnostic use in the quality control of Unconjugated Estriol and Total β-Human
Chorionic Gonadotrophin methods on clinical chemistry systems.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Values are listed in the package insert for several analyzers
I. Device Description:
Randox Maternal Controls are manufactured at three levels, Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3.
The analyte concentrations in each of the three levels have been chosen to span a range that
includes the chemically significant or medical decision level(s) for each analyte (Free Estriol
and Total β-Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin [Beta hCG]). The analyte concentrations are
clinically relevant for use in routine hospital laboratories.
Human source material from which this product has been derived and has been tested at the
donor level for the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV1 & HIV2) antibody, Hepatitis B
surface antigen (HbsAg) and the Hepatitis C virus (HCV) antibody and were found to be
non-reactive based on FDA approved methods.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad Lyphochek Maternal Serum Controls
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k984594
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Bio-Rad Lyphochek
Randox Maternal Controls Maternal Serum Control
(k984594)
Intended Use The Randox Maternal Same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Randox Maternal Controls			Bio-Rad Lyphochek
Maternal Serum Control
(k984594)		
Intended Use			The Randox Maternal			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Controls Level 1, Level 2
and Level 3 are intended for
in vitro diagnostic use in the
quality control of
Unconjugated Estriol and
Total β-Human Chorionic
Gonadotrophin
Size 1 ml 5 ml
Format Lyophilized Same
Matrix Human serum Same
+2 - +8 °C
Storage (unopened) Same
Until expiration date
7 days at +2 - +8 °C 10 days at +2 - +8 °C
Open vial claim
Unconjugated Estriol, and
Same, but with
Analytes Total β-Human Chorionic
Alphafoetoprotein
Gonadotrophin
Number of Levels 3 Same
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Controls Level 1, Level 2
and Level 3 are intended for
in vitro diagnostic use in the
quality control of
Unconjugated Estriol and
Total β-Human Chorionic
Gonadotrophin					
Size			1 ml			5 ml		
Format			Lyophilized			Same		
Matrix			Human serum			Same		
Storage (unopened)			+2 - +8 °C
Until expiration date			Same		
Open vial claim			7 days at +2 - +8 °C			10 days at +2 - +8 °C		
Analytes			Unconjugated Estriol, and
Total β-Human Chorionic
Gonadotrophin			Same, but with
Alphafoetoprotein		
Number of Levels			3			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
The analytes contained in the Randox Maternal Controls were obtained from
commercially available standards.
Stability
Stability protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found acceptable.
Closed vial (shelf-life) stability at the recommended storage temperature of (2 to 8
°C) was demonstrated based on accelerated stability. Closed vials are stable until the
date printed on individual vials. Real-time closed vial stability studies are on-going.
For open-vial stability, the sponsor demonstrated that reconstituted serum is stable for
7 days at the recommended storage temperature of 2 to 8°C. All storage
recommendations are provided in the labeling.
Value Assignment
Value assignment was determined for each analyte contained in the Randox Maternal
Controls using multiple analyzer platforms and replicate analysis of samples by
external clinical laboratories and internal testing conducted at Randox Laboratories
Ltd.
Value assignment data were collated and an appropriate target value was assigned to
each analyte based on the average of the observed values. Ranges were then assigned
depending on the analyte. The labeling states that obtained values should fall within
the specified range provided on lot-specific value sheets and that laboratories should
establish appropriate acceptance criteria when using this product for its intended use.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Target and range values for representative analyzers are found in the package insert for
each specific lot.
N. Proposed Labeling:
All labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5