
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113524
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for total 25 (OH) vitamin D (VIT D)
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Maine Standards Company, LLC
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
VALIDATE® VIT D Calibration Verification / Linearity Test Kit
G. Regulatory Information:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JJX Class I, reserved 862.1660 Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
VALIDATE VIT D Calibration Verification / Linearity Test Kit solutions are
intended for in vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative determination of linearity,
calibration verification and verification of reportable range for the following
analyte: total 25(OH) Vitamin D (VIT D). The product is intended for use with
quantitative assays on the indicated analyzer provided in the labeling.
2. Indication(s) for use:
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JJX			Class I, reserved			862.1660			Clinical Chemistry		

--- Page 2 ---
Refer to intended use above
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use
For prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
DiaSorin Liaison® Analyzer
I. Device Description:
Each VALDIDATE® VIT D Calibration Verification / Linearity Test Kit contains
purified chemicals in a human serum base. Multiple levels are provided to establish
the relationship between theoretical and actual performance of each of the included
analytes. The test kit assists in the documentation of linearity, calibration verification
and verification of linear range. The solutions will also provide assistance when
troubleshooting instrument systems, reagent problems and calibration anomalies.
Analyte Units Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
25(OH) ng/mL 5 39 73 106 140
Vit D
Material of human origin used in the manufacture of this test kit was tested at the
donor level using FDA approved methods and was found to be non-reactive for
HBsAG and to antibodies to HCV and HIV-1/2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VALIDATE® Chem 6 Calibration Verification / Linearity Test Kit
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k013119
3. Comparison with predicate
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Analyte	Units	Level 1	Level 2	Level 3	Level 4	Level 5
25(OH)
Vit D	ng/mL	5	39	73	106	140

--- Page 3 ---
Candidate Device Predicate (K013119)
VALIDATE VIT D Calibration Verification VALIDATE Chem 6
/ Linearity Test Kit Calibration Verification /
Linearity Test Kit
Indications for Use Test Kit solutions are intended for in Same
vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative
determination of linearity, calibration
verification and verification of
reportable range for the given analyte.
Analytes 25 (OH) vitamin D (VIT D) Uric acid
Matrix Human serum base Aqueous
Number of levels 6 including a base matrix 6 including zero
per set
Preparation Liquid, ready to use Same
Fill volume 1.5 mL each level 5.0 mL each level
Storage and Until expiration at -10 to -25 °C Until expiration at 2 to 8
stability °C
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP06-A: Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures:
A Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Candidate Device
VALIDATE VIT D Calibration Verification
/ Linearity Test Kit	Predicate (K013119)
VALIDATE Chem 6
Calibration Verification /
Linearity Test Kit
Indications for Use	Test Kit solutions are intended for in
vitro diagnostic use in the quantitative
determination of linearity, calibration
verification and verification of
reportable range for the given analyte.	Same
Analytes	25 (OH) vitamin D (VIT D)	Uric acid
Matrix	Human serum base	Aqueous
Number of levels
per set	6 including a base matrix	6 including zero
Preparation	Liquid, ready to use	Same
Fill volume	1.5 mL each level	5.0 mL each level
Storage and
stability	Until expiration at -10 to -25 °C	Until expiration at 2 to 8
°C

--- Page 4 ---
Traceability
Not applicable
Value Assignment
VIT D Calibration Verification / Linearity Test Kits are manufactured such
that a linear relationship exists among Levels 1 through 5 and to provide an
equal distance between Levels 1 to 5; Level 1 being the lowest concentration
and Level 5 being the highest. A base matrix containing an analyte value of
zero is also provided with the kit. The base matrix can be used to make
dilutions of Level 1 to obtain a result lower than Level 1, if needed. The
dilution scheme is achieved by calculating the delta between two consecutive
levels (2, 3) and applying it to subsequent levels. Additionally, using
recovered values for Levels 1 and 5 using a percentage calculation can give
the required levels (CLSI EP06 Appendix A).
Target values for the linearity set were determined using the 25-
Hydroxyvitamin D (25-OH-D) assay on the DiaSorin Liaison analyzer. Actual
recovered values were used to calculate target values for each level of the
linearity set using a linear regression technique. Appropriate equal distance
values were entered as the ‘x’ values and recovered values from the levels
were used as ‘y’ values to calculate a regression equation. The resulting ‘y’
values were used as target values for each of the five levels. Expected target
values may change depending on instrumentation, methodology, and assay
temperature. Typical value ranges are provided in the package insert. Typical
value ranges for each level of the linearity set are summarized in the table
below.
Analyte Units Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
25(OH) ng/mL 5 39 73 106 140
Vit D
Stability
Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found to
be acceptable. Closed vial stability of the VALIDATE VIT D Calibration
Verification / Linearity Test Kit was determined using real-time open vial
studies as a worst case scenario and is on-going. The sponsor recommended
storage temperature is -10 to -25ºC.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Analyte	Units	Level 1	Level 2	Level 3	Level 4	Level 5
25(OH)
Vit D	ng/mL	5	39	73	106	140

--- Page 5 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The typical values are provided in the package insert.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6