
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k113558
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalent determination for a premarket notification for the
BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F blood culture medium in plastic bottles.
C. Measurand:
Aerobic bacteria and yeast
D. Type of Test:
Liquid culture medium for recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and yeast) from
blood using fluorescent instruments to detect increased CO
2
E. Applicant:
Becton Dickinson and Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F (plastic)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.2560
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
MDB

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium is used in a qualitative procedure for
the aerobic culture and recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and yeast) from
blood. The principal use of this medium is with the BD BACTEC fluorescent
series instruments.
2. Indications for use:
The BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium is used in a qualitative procedure for
the aerobic culture and recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and yeast) from
blood. The principal use of this medium is with the BD BACTEC fluorescent
series instruments.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s:
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
BD BACTEC fluorescent series instrument (BACTEC FX, 9240, 9050)
I. Device Description:
The sample to be tested is inoculated into one or more vials which are inserted into
the BACTEC fluorescent series instrument for incubation and periodic reading. Each
vial contains a chemical sensor which can detect increases in CO produced by the
2
growth of microorganisms. The sensor is monitored by the instrument every ten
minutes for an increase in its fluorescence, which is proportional to the amount of
CO present. A positive reading indicates the presumptive presence of viable
2
microorganisms in the vial. Detection is limited to microorganisms that will grow in a
particular type of medium.
Resins have been described for the treatment of blood specimens both prior to and
after their inoculation into culture media. Resins have been incorporated into
BACTEC culture media to enhance recovery of organisms without a need for special
processing.

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F medium
2. Predicate K number(s):
k921133
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Qualitative procedure for the Same
aerobic culture and recovery of
microorganisms (bacteria and
yeast) from blood, with the BD
BACTEC fluorescent series
instrument
Specimen type Human blood Same
Instrumentation BD BACTEC fluorescent series Same
Detection Continuous monitoring; Same
Technology incorporate chemical sensor for
detection of CO2 increases
produced by the growth of
aerobic bacteria and yeast
Incubation 35ºC (±1.5ºC) up to 120 hrs Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Bottle multilayer polycarbonate/nylon/ Glass
polycarbonate plastic
Ingredients Sugar concentration 0.2% Sugar concentration 0%
Bottle weight 20.9g 113g
Bottle height 5.0 inches 5.6 inches
Sensor 2.6g specific for the plastic bottle 1.75g
geometry
Indicator Increase concentrations of Different indicator and dye
indicator and dye for the sensor ratios
changes
Adhesive Inert adhesion promoter for the Adhesion promoter not
adhesion of senor to the required
polycarbonate surface of the

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
								
Intended Use			Qualitative procedure for the
aerobic culture and recovery of
microorganisms (bacteria and
yeast) from blood, with the BD
BACTEC fluorescent series
instrument			Same		
Specimen type			Human blood			Same		
Instrumentation			BD BACTEC fluorescent series			Same		
Detection
Technology			Continuous monitoring;
incorporate chemical sensor for
detection of CO2 increases
produced by the growth of
aerobic bacteria and yeast			Same		
Incubation			35ºC (±1.5ºC) up to 120 hrs			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
								
Bottle			multilayer polycarbonate/nylon/
polycarbonate plastic			Glass		
Ingredients			Sugar concentration 0.2%			Sugar concentration 0%		
Bottle weight			20.9g			113g		
Bottle height			5.0 inches			5.6 inches		
Sensor			2.6g specific for the plastic bottle
geometry			1.75g		
Indicator			Increase concentrations of
indicator and dye for the sensor
changes			Different indicator and dye
ratios		
Adhesive			Inert adhesion promoter for the
adhesion of senor to the
polycarbonate surface of the			Adhesion promoter not
required		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
plastic bottles
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
If microorganisms are present in the test sample inoculated into the BACTEC vial,
CO will be produced when the organisms metabolize the substrates present in the
2
vial. Increases in the fluorescence of the vial sensor caused by the higher amount of
CO are monitored by the BACTEC fluorescent series instrument. Analysis of the
2
rate and amount of CO increase enables the BACTEC fluorescent series instrument
2
to determine if the vial is positive, i.e., that the test sample contains viable organisms.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The reproducibility study was evaluated by time to detection and recovery, in the
Instrument Time to Detection and Recovery studies by using three lots. Both Lots
1 and 3 exhibited no statistically significant difference in time to detection
between the new and predicate devices. Lot 2 exhibited a statistically significant
difference in time to recovery due to the performance of BACTEC 9050 with
Leuconostoc spp.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The range of time-to-detection in hours was ≤ 72 hours for each of the
organisms listed below. The QC study was performed on three lots and the
QC specifications were met.
Aerobic Medium Organisms
Neisseria meningitidis Candida glabrata
ATCC 13090 ATCC 66032
Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus
ATCC 19418 ATCC 25923

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
								
			plastic bottles					

--- Page 5 ---
Streptococcus pneumoniae* Escherichia coli
ATCC 6305 ATCC 25922
Streptococcus pyogenes Alcaligenes faecalis
ATCC 19615 ATCC 8750
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
ATCC 27853
*CLSI recommended strain
d. Detection limit:
Microbial Detection Limit study
The test includes 15 strains tested at two blood volumes, each with three low
inoculum levels (0 to 1 and 1 to 10 CFU per bottle) over three lots for a total
of 270 paired sets:
15 strains x 2 blood volumes x 3 inoculum levels x 3 lots = 270
Microbial Detection Limit Comparison summary
Condition Number of Bottles
Growth and detection in both the new and 200 per device
predicate device
Growth and detection in the predicate device 26 (9.6%)
(glass) only
Growth and detection in the new device 20 (7.4%)
(plastic) only
No growth and detection in the both new and 24 (8.9%)
predicate devices
There were 26 cultures positive only in the glass device, 20 of the negative
cultures in the new plastic device were from the low inoculum (0 to 1 CFU
per bottle) level. There were six failures at the 1 to 10 CFU per bottle
inoculum level:
Micrococcus luteus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus epidermidis,
Streptococcus pneumoniae and 2 Candida glabrata.
There were four false negative cultures that contributed to the overall
difference. Two false negatives were with Leuconostoc species in the
predicate device. Two false negatives were in the new device, one with
Leuconostoc species and one with Staphylococcus epidermidis. The
Staphylococcus epidermidis was a low inoculum and the inoculum plate count
was culture negative.

[Table 1 on page 5]
Condition	Number of Bottles
Growth and detection in both the new and
predicate device	200 per device
Growth and detection in the predicate device
(glass) only	26 (9.6%)
Growth and detection in the new device
(plastic) only	20 (7.4%)
No growth and detection in the both new and
predicate devices	24 (8.9%)

--- Page 6 ---
The study demonstrated that the inoculum was 10- 100 CFU per bottle for the
new BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F Plastic vial.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
Performance of the BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium in plastic bottles was
evaluated during internal analytical studies to demonstrate comparable
performance to the predicate device – the BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium
in glass bottles.
Instrument Time to Detection (TTD) study
The study included blood volumes, organism and BACTEC fluorescent-series
blood culture instrument (BACTEC FX, 9240, 9050). Each organism was
inoculated at 10 to 100 CFU per bottle, across two blood volumes (3 mL and 10
mL) over three lots of media for paired sets of the new and predicate devices. This
testing was repeated in each BACTEC fluorescent-series blood culture instrument
(BACTEC FX, 9240, 9050). There were 726 (98.4%) pair sets positive in both
the new and predicate devices.
3 lots x 2 blood volumes x 3 instruments x 41 isolates = 738 pair sets
Organisms with median TTD greater than one hour were summarized in the table
below:

--- Page 7 ---
Percent Recovery (Sensitivity) study
A total of 738 paired sets were evaluated in the Percent Recovery comparison.
There were nine paired sets failed to recover organisms in both the new and
predicate device (1.6%) in the percent recovery study. One paired set recovered
in the predicate device only (the paired new device was negative) and two paired
sets recovered in the new device only (the predicate device was negative).
The recovery failure included S. pneumoniae, Eikenella corrodens, and
Leuconostoc spp. The observed failures of S. pneumoniae and Eikenella corrodens
were replicates in a single instrument type. An additional study was conducted
using the failed recovery strains; there were no recovery failure.
False Positive Rate Study
False positivity was assessed with bottles inoculated with freshly drawn human
blood (i.e. 2, 4, 6, and 8 mL). No organisms were added to the bottle. There were
240 paired sets comprised of 80 bottles from each of the three lots. There were
two false positive plastic bottles observed but they were inoculated outside of the
recommended usage range for the device (<3 mL).
False Negative Rate Study
The data for this study was generated from the Instrument Time to Detection,
Percent Recovery (Sensitivity), and Microbial Detection Limit studies. Bottles
from that study that are expected to be positive (i.e., those inoculated with viable
organisms) will form the dataset for the False Negative Rate.
A total of 82 paired sets were evaluated to determine the false negatives, with the
following results:
Detected in predicate device only 27
Detected in new device only 22
Detected in neither devices (Negatives) 33 paired sets
There was one false negative result with the new device: Leuconostoc spp. with 3
mL of blood (plate count 35 CFU).

--- Page 8 ---
BACTEC Instrument Platform Compatibility
Data for this study were from a subset of organisms included in the Instrument
Time to Detection study. A total of 246 paired sets (new and predicate devices)
were tested in each the BACTEC FX, BACTEC 9240 and BACTEC 9050
fluorescent-series blood culture instruments. There were nine paired sets that
failed to recover in both the new and predicate devices in the BACTEC FX
instrument.
Recovery Failures in the BACTEC FX
A total of three recovery failures were observed with the BACTEC 9050
instrument. All three recovery failures were associated with Leuconostoc spp.
The BACTEC 9050 exhibited a statistically significant difference in time to
detection between the new and predicate devices. In the BACTEC 9050, the
Wilcoxon median time to detection difference estimate is 0.417 hours (25
minutes) in favor of the predicate device.
Recovery Failures in the BACTEC 9050
There was no recovery failures observed with the BACTEC 9240 instrument.
Antimicrobial Neutralization Capability
The amount of antimicrobial added to each bottle represents the amount found in
7 mL of blood at or near the peak serum level. The antimicrobials were:
Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Aztreonam Ceftazidime
Ciprofloxacin Ceftriaxone Cefotaxime
Ertapenem Fluconazole Cefepime
Gentamicin Imipenem Levofloxacin
Meropenem Tetracycline Tigecycline
Ticarcillin/Clavulanate Piperacillin/Tazobactam Vancomycin

[Table 1 on page 8]
Amoxicillin/Clavulanate	Aztreonam	Ceftazidime
Ciprofloxacin	Ceftriaxone	Cefotaxime
Ertapenem	Fluconazole	Cefepime
Gentamicin	Imipenem	Levofloxacin
Meropenem	Tetracycline	Tigecycline
Ticarcillin/Clavulanate	Piperacillin/Tazobactam	Vancomycin

--- Page 9 ---
A supplemental antimicrobial neutralization study, at a lower concentration was
conducted with a representative drug in each antimicrobial class: Aztreonam,
Ciprofloxacin, Cefotaxime, Cefepime, Gentamicin, Meropenem, Piperacillin, and
Tazobactam.
No statistically significant difference was observed in the studies.
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance of the new BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F Plastic was compare to
that of the BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium in glass bottles.
b. Matrix comparison:
BD BACTEC Plus culture media, human blood volume, common bloodstream
pathogens
3. Clinical studies:
Not Applicable, analytical seeded studies for comparison between the new BD
BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F Plastic and the BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium in
glass bottles
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not Applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.

--- Page 10 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.