
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k120994
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalent determination for a premarket notification for the
BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F blood culture medium.
C. Measurand:
Aerobic bacteria and yeast
D. Type of Test:
Liquid culture medium for recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and yeast) from
blood using fluorescent instruments to detect increased CO
2
E. Applicant:
Becton Dickinson and Company
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic /F
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.2560
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
MDB
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use:
The BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F medium is used in a qualitative
procedure for the aerobic culture and recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and
yeast) from blood. The principal use of this medium is with the BD BACTEC
fluorescent series instruments.
2. Indications for use:
The BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium is used in a qualitative procedure for
the aerobic culture and recovery of microorganisms (bacteria and yeast) from
blood. The principal use of this medium is with the BD BACTEC fluorescent
series instruments.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s:
Prescription use
4. Special instrument requirements:
BD BACTEC fluorescent series instrument
I. Device Description:
The sample to be tested is inoculated into one or more vials which are inserted into the
BACTEC fluorescent series instrument for incubation and periodic reading. Each vial
contains a chemical sensor which can detect increases in CO produced by the growth of
2
microorganisms. The sensor is monitored by the instrument every ten minutes for an
increase in its fluorescence, which is proportional to the amount of CO present. A
2
positive reading indicates the presumptive presence of viable microorganisms in the vial.
Detection is limited to microorganisms that will grow in a particular type of medium.
Resins have been described for the treatment of blood specimens both prior to and after
their inoculation into culture media. Resins have been incorporated into BACTEC culture
media to enhance recovery of organisms without a need for special processing.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic /F medium
2. Predicate k number(s):
k083572
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use Qualitative procedure for the Same
aerobic culture and recovery of
microorganisms (bacteria and
yeast) from blood, with the BD
BACTEC fluorescent series
instrument
Specimen type Human blood Same
Maximum blood to 1:4 Same
broth ratio
Instrumentation BD BACTEC fluorescent series Same
Detection Continuous monitoring; Same
Technology incorporate chemical sensor for
detection of CO increases
2
produced by the growth of
aerobic bacteria and yeast
Incubation 35ºC (± 1.5ºC) up to 120 hrs Same
Vial Glass Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Resin blend Two hydrophobic absorbing One hydrophobic absorbing
formulation resins resins
Resin blend weight Decreased --
per bottle
Percent oxygen in changed --
head space
Sodium 0.085% 0.05%
polyanetholsulfonate
(SPS) concentration
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
								
Intended Use			Qualitative procedure for the
aerobic culture and recovery of
microorganisms (bacteria and
yeast) from blood, with the BD
BACTEC fluorescent series
instrument			Same		
Specimen type			Human blood			Same		
Maximum blood to
broth ratio			1:4			Same		
Instrumentation			BD BACTEC fluorescent series			Same		
Detection
Technology			Continuous monitoring;
incorporate chemical sensor for
detection of CO increases
2
produced by the growth of
aerobic bacteria and yeast			Same		
Incubation			35ºC (± 1.5ºC) up to 120 hrs			Same		
Vial			Glass			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
								
Resin blend
formulation			Two hydrophobic absorbing
resins			One hydrophobic absorbing
resins		
Resin blend weight
per bottle			Decreased			--		
Percent oxygen in
head space			changed			--		
Sodium
polyanetholsulfonate
(SPS) concentration			0.085%			0.05%		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
L. Test Principle:
If microorganisms are present in the test sample inoculated into the BACTEC vial,
CO will be produced when the organisms metabolize the substrates present in the
2
vial. Increases in the fluorescence of the vial sensor caused by the higher amount of
CO are monitored by the BACTEC fluorescent series instrument. Analysis of the
2
rate and amount of CO increase enables the BACTEC fluorescent series instrument
2
to determine if the vial is positive, i.e., that the test sample contains viable organisms.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The reproducibility study was evaluated by time to detection and recovery, in the
Instrument Time to Detection and Recovery studies across three lots. Results
exhibited no statistically significant difference.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The range of time-to-detection in hours was ≤ 72 hours for each of the
organisms listed below. The QC study was performed on three lots and the
QC specifications were met.
Aerobic Medium Organisms
Neisseria meningitidis Candida glabrata
ATCC 13090 ATCC 66032
Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus
ATCC 19418 ATCC 25923
Streptococcus pneumoniae* Escherichia coli
ATCC 6305 ATCC 25922
Streptococcus pyogenes Alcaligenes faecalis
ATCC 19615 ATCC 8750
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
ATCC 27853
*CLSI recommended strain
4

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Microbial Detection Limit study
The test includes 15 strains tested at two blood volumes, each with two
inoculum levels over three lots for a total of 180 paired sets:
15 strains x 2 blood volumes x 2 inoculum levels x 3 lots = 180
Microbial Detection Limit Comparison summary
Condition Number of
Bottles
Growth and detection in both the new and predicate device 89
Growth and detection in the predicate device only 30
Growth and detection in the new device only 23
No growth and detection in either the new or predicate 38
devices
McNemar p-value 0.3363
Of the 30 cultures that were positive only in the predicate device, 23 of those
that were negative cultures in the new device had low inoculum (0 to 1 CFU
per bottle) levels. The remaining seven failures were at the 1 to 10 CFU per
bottle inoculum level. The organisms were Cryptococcus neoformans,
Micrococcus luteus, Staphylococcus epidermidis (3 and 10 mL of blood),
Streptococcus pneumoniae (two replicates at 3 mL of blood) and
Streptococcus sanguinis.
Of the 23 cultures that were positive only in the new device, 19 had low
inoculum (0 to 1 CFU per bottle) levels. The remaining four failures were at
the 1 to 10 CFU per bottle inoculum level. The four that failed to detect in the
1 to 10 CFU range included Candida glabrata, Micrococcus luteus,
Staphylococcus epidermidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Thirty-eight species failed to detect in both the new and predicate devices.
Thirty-three of the failures were at the lowest dilution (0 to 1 CFU per bottle)
and 5 were at the 1 to 10 CFU per bottle dilution: Escherichia coli,
Haemophilus parainfluenzae, and Streptococcus pneumoniae.
The claim for the new BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic /F bottle was 10-
100 CFU/bottle. This data is therefore acceptable for the claimed microbial
detection level.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Condition	Number of
Bottles
Growth and detection in both the new and predicate device	89
Growth and detection in the predicate device only	30
Growth and detection in the new device only	23
No growth and detection in either the new or predicate
devices	38
McNemar p-value	0.3363

--- Page 6 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
Performance of the BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F medium was evaluated on
three lots during internal analytical studies to demonstrate comparable performance to
the predicate device – the BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium. All studies utilized
the BD BACTEC FX fluorescent-series instrument operating on the released software
(4.10a).
Percent Recovery (Sensitivity) study
A total of 246 paired sets at 10 to 100 CFU per bottle were evaluated in the Percent
Recovery comparison. The study included six replicate paired sets per organism and
there were a total of 41 organisms. The six replicate paired sets are comprised of
three lots with two blood volumes per lot for both the new and predicate devices.
There were 244 (99.2%) positive in both the new and predicate devices.
The two recovery failures observed were with Kingella kingae. Subsequent testing of
five isolates of K. kingae, including the false negative isolate noted above, under the
same test conditions and over three lots all demonstrated growth and recovery as
expected.
Instrument Time to Detection
The Instrument Time to Detection (TTD) study included blood volumes, and
organisms. The TTD study included data from both the Percent Recovery and
Microbial Detection Limit studies. Each organism was inoculated at appropriate
inoculum levels, across two blood volumes (3 mL and 10 mL) over three lots of
media. The Microbial Detection Limit study was conducted at the lower inoculum
levels (replicates at 0 – 1 CFU, 1 – 10 CFU per bottle); the Percent Recovery study at
10 – 100 CFU per bottle.
6

--- Page 7 ---
The following organisms had a mean TTD difference that was more rapid in the
predicate device: Abiotrophia defectiva (2.39 h), Acinetobacter lwoffii (0.97),
Cardiobacterium hominis (3.11 h), Haemophilus influenzae (3.70 h), Streptococcus
sanguinis (8.12 h), Candida albicans (0.75 h), Enterococcus faecalis (0.62 h),
Granulicatella spp. (1 h), Kingella kingae (4.38 h), Micrococcus luteus (1.06 h),
Pediococcus acidilactici (1.08 h) and Streptococcus pneumoniae (0.81 h).
Leuconostoc spp. exhibited a mean TTD difference increase of 10.00 h compared to
the predicate device (mean TTD of 69.21 h), an increase of 14.45% in the new
device.
False Positive Rate Study
False positivity was assessed with bottles inoculated with freshly drawn human blood
(i.e. 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 mL). No organisms were added to the bottle. There were 120
bottles per device across three lots. No positive results were observed.
False Negative Rate Study
The data for this study was generated from the Instrument Time to Detection, Percent
Recovery (Sensitivity), and Microbial Detection Limit studies. Bottles that are
instrument negative at 120 hours and found to be positive when subcultured are
classified as false negative bottles.
A total of 93 paired sets were evaluated to determine the false negatives, with the
following results:
Detected in predicate device only 32
Detected in new device only 23
Detected in neither devices (Negatives) 38 paired sets
There were a total of 12 false negative bottles with instrument negative, subculture
positive. There were eight false negative results with the BACTEC Plus PRIME
Aerobic/F: Micrococcus luteus, Cryptococcus neoformans and six replicates of
Haemophilus parainfluenzae biotype I. There were four false negative results with
the predicate device: two replicates of Haemophilus parainfluenzae biotype I,
Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida glabrata.
There were two false negative bottles with both instrument and subculture negative:
two replicates of Kingella kingae with 3 mL of blood (plate count 31 CFU) in the new
BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F media. Subsequent testing of five additional
isolates of K. kingae, including the false negative isolate noted above, at inoculum 50-
100 CFU and across three lots all demonstrated recovery of Kingella kingae.
There was no statistically significant difference in the false negative rate between the
new BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F media and the predicate device.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Antimicrobial Neutralization Capability
The ability of the medium to recover organisms in the presence of eleven
antimicrobials at minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) levels was evaluated.
Each antimicrobial was tested with three organisms that would be appropriately
treated with the drug and each organism was susceptible to the drug at the
concentration inoculated into the bottle. The bottles were then assessed for recovery.
There were a total of 99 paired sets for this study.
The antimicrobial classes evaluated in this study were: Aminoglycosides,
Carbapenems, Glycopeptides, 3rdgen. Cephalosporins, Fluoroquinolones,
Tetracyclines, 4thgen. Cephalosporins, Monobactams, Triazoles, Glycylcycline,
+Penicillins / β-lactamase inhibitors
MIC Level Drug-Bug Recovery Pair Wise Comparison
MIC Level Drug-Bug Recovery Comparison
8

--- Page 9 ---
The data demonstrated that in the presence of Aztreonam at MIC level, the ability of
the new medium to recover organisms was 55.6% (5/9), and 66.7% (6/9) for the
predicate medium. Monobactams (Aztreonam) and Carbapenems were not included
in the predicate device when cleared. The performance of the carbapenem was
acceptable.
A subset of five commonly-used antimicrobials representative of their classes was
further evaluated at peak serum levels, concentrations at an average of 20x the MIC
of the test organisms. Each antimicrobial was tested with organisms that would be
appropriately treated with the drug and each organism was susceptible to the drug at
the concentration inoculated into the bottle. There were 150 paired sets of which 66
pair sets were not detected in both the predicate and the new devices:
Peak Serum Level Drug-Bug Challenge Summary
Peak Serum Level Drug-Bug Challenge Results by Drug
The overall recovery rate for the BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic/F medium was
51% vs. 27% for the BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium. The target organism
concentrations for these studies were 10- 100 CFU/bottle, and 7 mL of blood were
used.
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Performance of the new BD BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic /F Plastic was
compare to that of the BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium.
9

--- Page 10 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
BD BACTEC Plus culture media, human blood volume, common bloodstream
pathogens
3. Clinical studies:
Not Applicable, analytical seeded studies for comparison between the new BD
BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic /F and the BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F medium.
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not Applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not Applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not Applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Seeded studies performed by BD have shown equivalent performance of the BD
BACTEC Plus PRIME Aerobic /F medium compared to the BD BACTEC Plus
Aerobic/F medium.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10