
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k120591
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Calibrator materials for serum and urine Potassium, Chloride, Sodium
D. Type of Test:
Calibrator materials
E. Applicant:
Diamond Diagnostics Inc
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Diamond Calibrators for Tokyo Boeki ISE Module
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
Product Code Classification Regulation Section Panel
JIT Class II 21 CFR 862.1150 Calibrator
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product Code:
JIT
4. Panel:
75 Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Diamond calibrator for Tokyo Boeki ISE Module are intended for in vitro
diagnostics use to provide calibration points for the Na+, K+, and Cl- electrodes
on the Tokyo Boeki Prestige 24i, Biolis 24i, MGC 240 and Sirrus instruments in
both Human Serum and Human Urine modes.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
Prescription use
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product Code			Classification			Regulation Section			Panel	
JIT			Class II			21 CFR 862.1150			Calibrator		

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Tokyo Boeki Prestige 24i, Biolis 24i, MGC 240 and Sirrus instruments
I. Device Description:
Diamond Calibrators consist of a buffered solution of electrolytes and preservative.
The matrix of Diamond Calibrators is deionized water added with chemicals and a
resistivity of at least 10 mega-ohms. No human or animal products are used in the
calibrators.
Each calibrator is comprised of the following concentrations of analytes,
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Tokyo Boeki ISE Module Calibrators
2. Predicate K number(s):
k040958
3. Comparison with predicate:
Calibrator values are the same for the new device and predicate (Table 1).
2

--- Page 3 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None were referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
a). Traceability
Six replicates of each sample are tested analytically for the electrolytes using
reference methods. Flame Photometry is used for the Na+ and K+. Titration
method is used for the Cl-. The IL 943 Flame Photometer is used for testing
the Na+ and K+, and the Corning 925 instrument is used for testing the Cl-.
3

--- Page 4 ---
The exception is the Urine Calibrator 2, where the chloride is tested on the
SAT-500 Analyzer due to a low chloride concentration, 12mmol/L.
Lot to lot variation is determined by analytically testing new lot vs. previous
lot and predicate device, then normalized to either an aqueous standard made
with corresponding analyte NIST (National Institute of Standards and
Technology) material or a known Calibrator based on reference methods
(shown below).
b.) Value Assignment (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods)
Assigned values for Na+, K+, Cl- were obtained from six replicates in Tokyo
Beoki ISE module using NIST standard materials.
c.) Stability
Stability was determined using an accelerated (high temperature) stress test.
The results from the accelerated stress tests support 2 years shelf life when
stored at 18-25°C. Real time studies are being performed. Storage
temperature of the devices is 18-25oC. Results of stability tests for the open
and closed vial are provided. Opened vials showed Na+, K+, and Cl- remained
within specification after 60 days.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable.
4

--- Page 5 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not available.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.
5