
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
DEVICE ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K120504
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Analyte:
Quality control materials for Cannabinoids (delta-9-THC), cocaine (benzoylecgonine),
ethanol, lysergic acid diethlamide (LSD), methadone, methaqualone, opiates
(morphine, free), oxazepam, phencyclidine (PCP), propoxyphene, secobarbital, d-
Methamphetamine
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S1O
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S1O, MiniPak
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S2O
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S2O, MiniPak
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S1O Low Opiate
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S1O Low Opiate, MiniPak
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S2O Low Opiate
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control, Level S1O Low Opiate, MiniPak
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.3280, Clinical Toxicology Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product Code:
DIF
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to Indications for use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control is intended for use as quality control urine to
monitor the precision of laboratory urine toxicology screening procedures.
3. Special condition for use statement(s):
None
4. Special instrument Requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
The product is prepared from human urine with addition of preservatives, stabilizers,
constituents of animal origin, abused drugs and their metabolites. It is a liquid ready
to use quality control material.
The serum of each donor, who contributed urine for this product, was tested by FDA
accepted methods and found to be non-reactive for Hepatitis B surface Antigen
(HBsAg), antibody to Hepatitis C (HCV) and antibody to HIV-1/HIV-2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Liquichek Urine Toxicology Control (Screen Series)
2. Predicate K number(s):
K033924
3. Comparison with predicate:
Showing in table 1, both devices have same matrix and both are quality control
materials that measure similar analytes. These two devices are different in that
the candidate device added two novel analytes ­ oxazepam and d­
methamphetamine ­ and removed three analytes ­ nordiazepam, nortriptyline
(TCA), and d­amphetamine. Since the preservative of the candidate device is a
cocktail of antibiotics and it does not contain any hazardous materials, the
candidate device does not require the hazard symbol.

--- Page 3 ---
Table 1. Similarities and differences between candidate and predicate device.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The sponsor did not reference any standards in their submission.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:

--- Page 4 ---
Not applicable.
c. Traceability (controls, calibrators, or method):
Candidate product consists of eight control materials. Controls are human
urine spiked with known concentrations of drugs which were gravimetrically
prepared. Expected concentrations were verified by reference laboratories.
Minimum number of laboratories, replicate measurements, or assay systems is
not, however, specified.
Although GC/MS and Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA) analysis is performed
during stability studies, (see below), the traceability of control results to
GC/MS and EIA is not specified or discussed by the sponsor.
Stability studies are summarized for these controls. Product claims include: (1)
open vial: 30 days at 2 oC to 8 oC, (2) closed vial (Thawed): 45 days at 2 oC to
8 oC, and (3) shelf life stability: 2 years at -20 oC to -70 oC. The sponsor
specifies the frequency of testing, the method for testing the materials
(GC/MS or EIA), environmental conditions of storage, and acceptance criteria
for the study (less than 10% variance comparing to time zero). Accelerated
stability studies were employed by incubating controls at elevated
temperatures (i.e. 25oC, 16 oC, 5 oC, etc.) to detect alterations in product
performance more rapidly than would be seen under normal storage
conditions of -20 oC to -70 oC. Estimated expiration date was predicted using
a stability model with activation energy of the 20-kCal/mol or Arrhenius
Model. On-going real time studies are long-term and being performed. All
procedures appear to be compliance with standard for the industry.
Representative values of the materials are provided and look appropriate.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.

--- Page 5 ---
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a and b are not applicable):
Not available.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports
substantial equivalence decision.