
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k120448
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) k101204 MEG-2 and MEG-2
Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
A. The new MEG-2B and MEG-2B Pro systems use a modified test strip and test strip holder
relative to the predicate MEG-2 and MEG-2 Multi systems.
The changes are:
· Width of the strip holder (8mm to 6mm)
· Size of test strip (from 18x8x0.4 mm to 38x6x0.4 mm)
· Dimension of sample channel: from 1.4Wx3.4Lx0.15H (mm) to 1.4W x 3.4Lx 0.135H
(mm)
· Sample size: from >1ul to >0.8ul
B. The new MEG-2B and MEG-2B Pro meters use the same basic measurement algorithm as
the predicate meters, but the software has been modified to function with the modified test
strip holder and test strip which use a 7-code system instead of the predicate 4-code system.
C. The new MEG-2B and MEG-2B Pro systems use modified control solutions. The new MEG-
2B control solutions have the same chemical components (including a red dye) as the
predicate MEG-2 control solutions, but have slightly different glucose levels. Otherwise the
formulation is identical.
D. Altitude limitation from 6560 feet to 10335 feet.
The MEG-2B strip is identical to the GAL-1C strip previously cleared in the GAL-1C
BGMS in k102816. The altitude study in k102816 supported the altitude limitation of
10335 feet.
1

--- Page 2 ---
E. The name of the device has changed from “MEG-2 and MEG-2 Multi Blood Glucose
Monitoring System” to “MEG-2B and MEG-2B Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System”
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and analytes.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.
The device system is intended for single-patient (MEG-2B) or multiple-patient use (MEG-2B Pro).
Disinfection efficacy studies were performed on the materials comprising the meter and lancing
device by outside commercial testing demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV)
with the chosen disinfectant, Dispatch Hospital Cleaner Disinfectant Towels with Bleach disposable
wipes (EPA Reg. No: 56392-8). The sponsor also demonstrated that there was no change in
performance or in the external materials of the meter and lancing device after 1,825 cleaning and
disinfection cycles to simulate 5 years of use by lay-users and after 10,950 cleaning and disinfection
cycles to simulate 3 years of multiple-patient use.
2