
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K120001
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for a new device
C. Measurand:
Giardia lamblia antigens
D. Type of Test:
Lateral flow immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Trinity Biotech
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
UniGoldTM Giardia
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.3220 Entamoeba histolytica serological reagents
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MHI - Giardia spp.
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Giardia is a single use rapid immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of Giardia lamblia (G. lamblia) antigens in human stool
specimens. This test is intended for use with patients with gastrointestinal
symptoms as an aid in the diagnosis of suspected Giardia gastrointestinal
infections. As with other Giardia tests, results should be considered in
conjunction with the clinical evaluation and medical history. For In-Vitro
Diagnostic use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Giardia is a single use rapid immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of Giardia lamblia (G. lamblia) antigens in human stool
specimens. This test is intended for use with patients with gastrointestinal
symptoms as an aid in the diagnosis of suspected Giardia gastrointestinal
infections. As with other Giardia tests, results should be considered in
conjunction with the clinical evaluation and medical history. For In-Vitro
Diagnostic use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Giardia test strip (5mm x 60mm) combines a
nitrocellulose membrane with designated fiber pads (conjugate, sample and
absorbent). The test strip is placed into a plastic housing and is sealed constituting the
Test Device. The test strip consists of A) Mouse anti-Giardia lamblia antibody
coated onto the Test Line region, B) Rabbit anti-goat IgG antibody coated onto the
Control Line region, C) Goat anti-Giardia lamblia antibodies and Goat IgG
antibodies conjugated to red latex particles and dried onto the inert glass fiber
conjugate pad which is positioned on the test strip below the nitrocellulose zone. The
housing contains a window where the diluted stool sample is added (Sample Well)
and a window above where the results are read in 15 minutes.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
2

--- Page 3 ---
Remel Xpect® Giardia Lateral Flow Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K031942
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Trinity Biotech Remel XpectTM Giardia
UniGoldTM Giardia Lateral Flow Assay
Intended Use Detection of Giardia Detection of Giardia
lamblia antigens in antigens in preserved
human stool specimens and unpreserved fecal
specimens
Technology Qualitative Qualitative
immunochromatographic immunochromatographic
assay assay
Specimen Type Human stool samples, Human stool samples,
unpreserved: unpreserved:
fresh/frozen, fresh/frozen,
preserved: 10% preserved: 10%
formalin, SAF, or Cary- formalin, SAF, or Cary-
Blair Transport Medium Blair Transport Medium
Reading Method Visual Visual
Test time 15 minutes 15 minutes
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Trinity Biotech Remel XpectTM Giardia
UniGoldTM Giardia Lateral Flow Assay
Conjugate antibodies Goat anti-Giardia, Mouse anti-Giardia
Goat IgG antibodies monoclonal, Normal
Mouse IgG antibodies
Conjugate material Red latex conjugated Dark blue polystyrene
antibodies dried on a microparticles coated
conjugate pad. with antibodies and
diluted in buffer.
Capture antibodies on Mouse anti-Giardia Rabbit anti-Giardia
membrane lamblia “Test Line”; antibody “Test Line”;
Rabbit anti-Goat IgG Goat anti-mouse IgG
“Control Line” “Control Line”
Membrane material Nitrocellulose Mylar-backed
nitrocellulose
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
			Trinity Biotech
UniGoldTM Giardia		Remel XpectTM Giardia
Lateral Flow Assay	
Intended Use			Detection of Giardia
lamblia antigens in
human stool specimens		Detection of Giardia
antigens in preserved
and unpreserved fecal
specimens	
Technology			Qualitative
immunochromatographic
assay		Qualitative
immunochromatographic
assay	
Specimen Type			Human stool samples,
unpreserved:
fresh/frozen,
preserved: 10%
formalin, SAF, or Cary-
Blair Transport Medium		Human stool samples,
unpreserved:
fresh/frozen,
preserved: 10%
formalin, SAF, or Cary-
Blair Transport Medium	
Reading Method			Visual		Visual	
Test time			15 minutes		15 minutes	

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
	Item			Device	Predicate	
			Trinity Biotech
UniGoldTM Giardia		Remel XpectTM Giardia
Lateral Flow Assay	
Conjugate antibodies			Goat anti-Giardia,
Goat IgG antibodies		Mouse anti-Giardia
monoclonal, Normal
Mouse IgG antibodies	
Conjugate material			Red latex conjugated
antibodies dried on a
conjugate pad.		Dark blue polystyrene
microparticles coated
with antibodies and
diluted in buffer.	
Capture antibodies on
membrane			Mouse anti-Giardia
lamblia “Test Line”;
Rabbit anti-Goat IgG
“Control Line”		Rabbit anti-Giardia
antibody “Test Line”;
Goat anti-mouse IgG
“Control Line”	
Membrane material			Nitrocellulose		Mylar-backed
nitrocellulose	

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Sample volume 100 µL 2 drops ~ 40-60 µL
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI M28-A2 Procedures for the Recovery and Identification of Parasites from the
Intestinal Tract
L. Test Principle:
A buffered solution is added to a dilution tube followed by the addition of two drops
of the stool specimen via a disposable pipette. This mixture is then dispensed in total
into the sample well of the lateral flow cartridge device with a dropper pipette. The
mixture migrates through a pad containing red latex microspheres that have been
coated with an antibody specific for the Giardia antigen.
When Giardia antigens are present in the sample they combine with the antibody/red
latex conjugate. As this complex migrates it binds to the antibodies in the test region
of the device forming a visible pink/red band.
Excess red latex conjugate forms a second pink/red band in the control region of the
device. The control line should always appear as a visible pink/red band in the control
region of the device to indicate that the test device is functioning correctly.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was assessed at three sites using a blind coded sample panel
with varying amounts of Giardia cysts spiked into negative human stool
matrix. The panel consisted of two low positive, two high positive, and two
negative samples. The panels were tested in two runs at each site by two
operators each day for five days. Each site ran positive and negative controls
for each day of testing. Reproducibility was 100%.
Additional in-house studies were conducted to demonstrate performance near
the assay cutoff and to demonstrate repeatability across lots. A panel of low
positive, moderate positive, and high negative samples were tested in
quadruplicate in two runs by two operators each day for five days.
Repeatability in this study was 100%. Lot-to-lot repeatability across three lots
was evaluated with a panel of ten positive and ten negative samples, and also
with a panel of five positive and two negative samples run in triplicate. Lot-
to-lot repeatability was 100%. The reproducibility and repeatability study
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Sample volume			100 µL			2 drops ~ 40-60 µL		

--- Page 5 ---
results are acceptable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Controls:
Good Laboratory Practice recommends the use of control specimens to ensure
proper device performance at least once daily. Uni-Gold™ Giardia Controls
are available separately for use only with Uni-Gold™ Giardia. These controls
are used to verify correct device performance, operator procedure and result
interpretation. The positive control will produce a reactive test result and the
negative control will produce a non-reactive test result as described in the
package insert.
It is recommended that positive and negative controls are run
· By all new operators performing testing on patient specimens
· With each new kit lot and whenever a new shipment of test kits is received
· At periodic intervals as specified in the laboratory Quality Assurance
program
Uni-Gold™ Giardia Controls must give the expected reactive or non-reactive
results; otherwise the test results are not valid and the test must be repeated.
Sample stability:
Giardia cysts were spiked into human stool samples in the following fixative
and transport medium types: 10% formalin, SAF, Cary Blair, C&S, or fresh
(unpreserved). Negative samples were also prepared in each medium type.
The samples were stored under different temperature conditions as described
below and tested at various time points during storage. All samples produced
the expected positive or negative results. The data supports the following
sample storage parameters:
Fresh stool 48 hours at 2-8°C
Frozen Stool 2 months at -20°C
Cary Blair or C&S transport media 7 days at 2-8°C
Cary Blair or C&S transport media 2 months at -20°C
10% formalin or SAF fixed stool 2 months at 2-30°C
A multiple freeze/thaw study was also conducted with negative and positive
spiked fresh stool samples. All samples produced the expected results in the
study. Multiple freeze/thaw cycles should be avoided.
High-dose hook effect:
5

--- Page 6 ---
High levels of Giardia cysts were spiked into negative human stool matrix,
serially diluted, and then tested. High cyst concentrations produced the
expected positive results in the Uni-Gold Giardia and did not produce a high-
dose hook effect.
d. Detection limit:
The limit of detection was determined by spiking purified Giardia cysts
quantified by DFA microscopy into negative human stool samples. The
samples were serially diluted and three replicates from each dilution were
tested with the Uni-Gold Giardia to determine the concentration that produced
a positive result 95% of the time. A limit of detection concentration of 254
cysts/mL was confirmed by testing an additional 20 replicates.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross reactivity:
No cross reactivity was observed with samples containing the following
microorganisms:
Adenovirus serotype 3 Coronavirus OC43 Iodamoeba butschlii
Adenovirus serotype 5 Coxsackievirus Isospora sp.
Adenovirus serotype 7 Cryptosporidium parvum Klebsiella pneumoniae
Adenovirus serotype 41 Cyclspora cayetanensis Microsporidia
Adenovirus serotype 40 Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Salmonella typhimurium
Aeromonas hydrophila Dientamoeba fragilis Shigella dysenteriae
Ascaris lumbricoides Diphyllobothrium latum Shigella flexneri
Bacteroides fragilis Echovirus 20 Shigella sonnei
Bacillus cereus Endolimax nana Staphylococcus aureus
Bacillus subtilis Entamoeba coli S. aureus (Cowan's)
Blastocystis hominis Entamoeba hartmanni Staphylococcus epidermidis
Campylobacter coli Entamoeba histolytica Strongyloides stercoralis
Campylobacter fetus Enterobius vermincularis Taenia sp.
Campylobacter jejuni Enterococcus faecalis Trichurius trichiura
Candida albicans Escherichia coli Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Chilomastix mesnili Escherichia coli 0157H7 Yersinia enterocolitica
Clostridium difficile Hookworm
C. biffermentans Hymenolepis nana
Cross reactivity to E. dispar was not evaluated.
Cross reactivity study results are acceptable.
Interference study:
The following substances did not interfere with positive or negative results
when tested in spiked human stool samples at the following concentrations:
Human blood (20% v/v), Mucin (10% w/v), Stool fat (Triglycerides
0.14mg/ml or Stearic Acid 20% v/v), Pepto-Bismol (Bismuth) (20% v/v),
Imodium A-D (Loperamide HCl) (20% v/v), Kaopectate (Attapugite) (20%
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Adenovirus serotype 3	Coronavirus OC43	Iodamoeba butschlii
Adenovirus serotype 5	Coxsackievirus	Isospora sp.
Adenovirus serotype 7	Cryptosporidium parvum	Klebsiella pneumoniae
Adenovirus serotype 41	Cyclspora cayetanensis	Microsporidia
Adenovirus serotype 40	Cytomegalovirus (CMV)	Salmonella typhimurium
Aeromonas hydrophila	Dientamoeba fragilis	Shigella dysenteriae
Ascaris lumbricoides	Diphyllobothrium latum	Shigella flexneri
Bacteroides fragilis	Echovirus 20	Shigella sonnei
Bacillus cereus	Endolimax nana	Staphylococcus aureus
Bacillus subtilis	Entamoeba coli	S. aureus (Cowan's)
Blastocystis hominis	Entamoeba hartmanni	Staphylococcus epidermidis
Campylobacter coli	Entamoeba histolytica	Strongyloides stercoralis
Campylobacter fetus	Enterobius vermincularis	Taenia sp.
Campylobacter jejuni	Enterococcus faecalis	Trichurius trichiura
Candida albicans	Escherichia coli	Vibrio parahaemolyticus
Chilomastix mesnili	Escherichia coli 0157H7	Yersinia enterocolitica
Clostridium difficile	Hookworm	
C. biffermentans	Hymenolepis nana	

--- Page 7 ---
v/v), Vancomycin (0.6mg/ml), K-Y jelly (0.289mg/ml), Vasoline
(0.22mg/ml), Condom lubricant (1.716mg/ml), Maalox (magnesium
hydroxide, calcium carbonate) (20% v/v), Tagamet (Cimetidine) (2.0x10-2
mg/ml), Pepsid (Famotidine) (6.0x10-4 mg/ml), Zantac (Ranitidine) (6.0x10-3
mg/ml), Prilosec (Omeprazole) (6.0x10-3 mg/ml), Nitrazoxanide (6.96x10-3
mg/ml), Atovaquone (0.031mg/ml), Azithromycin (1.2x10-2 mg/ml),
Metronidazole (0.12mg/ml), Paromomycin (0.42mg/ml), Trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole (TRM 0.04mg/ml & Sulf 0.4mg/ml).
Interference study results are acceptable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The Uni-Gold Giardia was compared to a commercially available lateral flow
test on 267 retrospective stool samples in the following stool matrix types:
unpreserved frozen (42), C&S (15), SAF (139), and formalin (71). The
percent agreement of the Uni-Gold Giardia versus the comparator device was
as follows:
Comparator
Site 1 Device
+ -
Uni-Gold + 26 3*
Giardia - 0 48
PPA: 100% (26/26)
NPA: 94.1% (48/51)
Comparator
Site 2 Device
+ -
Uni-Gold + 51 0
Giardia - 0 49
PPA: 100% (51/51)
NPA: 100% (49/49)
Comparator
Site 3 Device
+ -
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Site 1					Comparator		
					Device		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold		+	26		3*	
	Giardia		-	0		48	

[Table 2 on page 7]
Site 2					Comparator		
					Device		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold		+	51		0	
	Giardia		-	0		49	

[Table 3 on page 7]
Site 3			Comparator		
			Device		
		+		-	

--- Page 8 ---
Uni-Gold + 54 6**
Giardia - 0 30
PPA: 100% (54/54)
NPA: 83.3% (30/36)
*At Site 1, the three samples that tested positive on Uni-Gold Giardia and negative on the
comparator device were positive by DFA microscopy in agreement with the Uni-Gold Giardia
result.
**At Site 3, the six samples that tested positive on Uni-Gold Giardia and negative on the
comparator device were positive by Iron Hematoxylin stain microscopy in agreement with the
Uni-Gold Giardia result.
b. Matrix comparison:
See sample stability results in section M1c above.
3. Clinical studies:
The clinical performance of the Uni-Gold Giardia was evaluated on 567
retrospective stool samples at three external laboratories and on 378 prospective
stool samples at a fourth external laboratory.
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Retrospective study:
The sensitivity and specificity of the test was compared to DFA microscopy
with retrospective samples at sites 1 and 2 as shown in the following tables:
DFA
Site 1 Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold + 37 0
Giardia - 0 117
DFA
Site 2 Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold + 54 0
Giardia - 0 33
DFA
Total Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold + 91 0
Giardia - 0 150
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
	Uni-Gold		+	54	6**
	Giardia		-	0	30

[Table 2 on page 8]
Site 1			DFA
Microscopy		
			+	-	
	Uni-Gold
Giardia	+	37	0	
		-	0	117	

[Table 3 on page 8]
Site 2			DFA
Microscopy		
			+	-	
	Uni-Gold
Giardia	+	54	0	
		-	0	33	

[Table 4 on page 8]
Total			DFA
Microscopy		
			+	-	
	Uni-Gold	+
-	91	0	
	Giardia		0	150	

--- Page 9 ---
Sensitivity: 100% (91/91), 95% CI 95 – 100%
Specificity: 100% (150/150), 95% CI 97 – 100%
The positive samples were tested in the following matrix types: formalin (48),
SAF (13), unpreserved frozen (17), Cary Blair (3), and C&S (10). The
negative samples were tested in the following matrix types: formalin (42),
SAF (70), unpreserved frozen (25), Cary Blair (3), and C&S (10)
Additional retrospective studies
Performance of the test was compared to non-fluorescent microscopy
(staining) at two external laboratories. At site 2, 67 retrospective samples were
evaluated and demonstrated a Positive Percent Agreement (PPA) of 100%
(22/22) and a Negative Percent Agreement (NPA) of 100% (45/45) versus
Wheatley’s Stain. At site 3, 259 retrospective samples were evaluated and
demonstrated a PPA of 100% (60/60) and a NPA of 100% (199/199) versus
Iron Hematoxylin Stain.
Prospective study
Test performance was compared against DFA microscopy at site 4 with 378
prospective samples in the following stool sample types: fresh (153), frozen
(45), 10% formalin (45), SAF (45), C&S (45), and Cary Blair (45). Due to
infection prevalence, no positive samples were encountered during this study.
DFA
Site 4 Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold + 0 0
Giardia - 0 378
Specificity: 100% (378/378) 95% CI 99 – 100%
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M3a.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The performance of the Uni-Gold Giardia Test Kit was evaluated at four external
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Site 4					DFA		
					Microscopy		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold		+	0		0	
	Giardia		-	0		378	

--- Page 10 ---
laboratories. Samples were collected from Hospitals throughout the US and
Canada and consisted of both male and female patients, of all ages from pediatric
to adult, who presented with gastrointestinal symptoms. The retrospective study
included 173 positive samples and 394 negative samples confirmed by
microscopy. The prospective study included 378 samples which were
subsequently confirmed negative by microscopy. There were no differences
observed in clinical performance between males or females, or between pediatric
or adult populations.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10