
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k120771
B. Purpose for Submission:
Updated system software (version 2.0)
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Beckman Coulter, Inc.; UniCel® DxH 800 COULTER® Cellular Analysis System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative test for WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH, MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, PLT,
MPV, NE%, NE#, LY%, LY#, MO%, MO#, EO%, EO#, BA%, BA#, NRBC%, NRBC#,
RET%, RET#, MRV, IRF, and body fluid (TNC and RBC) parameters
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The UniCel® DxH 800 Coulter® Cellular Analysis System update with version 2.0
software has the same intended use and utilizes the same principles of operation,
reagents, controls and calibrators as the original cleared device.
The DxH 800 system is comprised of the analyzer (Sample Processing Module - SPM)
and a suite of analytical reagents that allow for simultaneous quantitative determination
of hematological parameters through the use of impedance, radio frequency (RF), flow
cytometric light scatter, spectrophotometry, and supravital staining methodologies.
Additional reagents provide system cleaning, quality control and calibration.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Coulter Principle of automated cell counting and sizing is used in the analysis of the
whole blood and body fluid specimens. Each cell suspended in a conductive liquid
(diluent) acts as an insulator. As each cell goes through the aperture, it momentarily
increases the resistance of the electrical path between two submerged electrodes on either
side of the aperture. This causes a measurable electronic pulse. While the number of
pulses indicates particle count, the amplitude of the electrical pulse is proportional to the
cell volume. These pulses are sent to the Signal Conditioner for analog to digital
conversion. Pulse counts and digitized pulse measurements are sent to the System
1

--- Page 2 ---
Manager for processing by the algorithms where the reported parameter values, flags and
histograms are generated.
The lytic reagent used for the white cell count prepares the blood so the system can count
leukocytes and measure the amount of hemoglobin. The lytic reagent rapidly and
simultaneously destroys the erythrocytes and converts a substantial proportion of the
hemoglobin to a stable pigment while it leaves leukocyte nuclei intact. The absorbance
of the pigment is directly proportional to the hemoglobin concentration of the sample.
Hemoglobin is measured photometrically at 525 nm using the sample from the white cell
analysis. Clean diluent is introduced into the cuvette during each operating cycle and is
used as a blank in the calculation of the HGB.
The COULTER® VCSn technology is used to determine the white cell differential,
nucleated red blood cell count and reticulocyte parameters along with associated flags,
messages, histograms and data plots.
The sample preparation and analysis uses specific reagents and analytical processes for
the WBC differential, NRBC and Retic analysis. The prepared sample is delivered to the
flow cell for sample detection. As the cells pass through the sensing zone, a diode laser
illuminates the particles causing light scatter and light absorption. Simultaneously to the
light scatter measurements, cell volume and cell conductivity are also measured.
The data collected during each of the analytical processes is transferred to the System
Manager where the digital raw values are processed by the algorithm using mathematical
approaches designed for finding optimal separation between clusters of data. The
identified clusters are used to calculate the frequency of cells within each population,
generate parameter values, flags, histograms and data plots.
3. Modes of Operation:
Automated Cassette Closed Vial (whole blood analysis mode)
Manual Single Tube Closed Vial (whole blood analysis mode)
Manual Single Tube Open Vial (1 in 5 pre-diluted whole blood mode; body fluid analysis
mode)
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is automated or by manual sample identification with the use of a
hand held barcode scanner.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The DxH 800 provides the user with the ability to obtain a variety of combinations of
2

--- Page 3 ---
parameter results through the use of analytical test panels. In addition, specimen analysis
can occur via a number of sampling methods on the analyzer (see modes of operation
above).
6. Calibration:
COULTER® S-CAL® Calibrator (k862122) is used for determining calibration factors to
ensure accurate measurements of directly measured CBC parameters. Assigned assay
values are traceable to reference methods.
7. Quality Control:
COULTER® 6C Cell Control (k081822) enables monitoring of system performance for
all directly measured and calculated CBC, Diff and NRBC parameters.
COULTER® Retic-X Cell Control (k930119) monitors system performance of the
reticulocyte parameters.
COULTER® LIN-X Linearity Control (k081641) verifies the reportable range, and
assesses the calibration of the WBC, RBC, HGB, and PLT parameters.
COULTER® Body Fluid Control (k082162) monitors system performance of the body
fluid cycle’s RBC and TNC count parameters. Additionally, COULTER Body Fluid
Control can be used for verification of the measuring range and linearity of the TNC and
RBC in the body fluid panel.
COULTER® LATRON™ CP-X Control (k885028) determines calibration factors to
ensure accurate measurements of directly measured CBC parameters. Assigned assay
values are traceable to reference methods.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes___X___ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.5220, Automated differential cell counter
2. Classification:
Class II
3

--- Page 4 ---
3 Product code:
GKZ, Counter, differential cell
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer is a quantitative multi-parameter, automated hematology
analyzer for in vitro diagnostic use in screening patient populations found in clinical
laboratories.
The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer identifies and enumerates the parameters indicated
below on the following sample types:
· Whole Blood (Venous and Capillary)
o WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH, MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, PLT,
MPV, NE%, NE#, LY%, LY#, MO%, MO#, EO%, EO#, BA%, BA#,
NRBC%, NRBC#, RET%, RET#, MRV, IRF
· Pre-Diluted Whole Blood (Venous and Capillary)
o WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH, MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, PLT,
MPV
· Body Fluids (cerebrospinal, serous and synovial)
o TNC and RBC
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
UniCel® DxH 800 COULTER® Cellular Analysis System; k081930
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item Device: UniCel® DxH 800 Predicate: UniCel® DxH 800
Update (Software 2.0)
Intended Use and The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer is a The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer
Function quantitative multi-parameter, automated is a quantitative, automated
hematology analyzer for in vitro diagnostic hematology analyzer for in vitro
use in screening patient populations found diagnostic use in screening
in clinical laboratories. patient populations found in
The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer identifies clinical laboratories.
and enumerates the parameters indicated The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer
below on the following sample types: provides a:
• Whole Blood (Venous and Capillary) – • Complete Blood Count (CBC),
WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH, Leukocyte 5 Part Differential
MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, PLT, MPV, (Diff), Reticulocyte (Retic) and
NE%, NE#, LY%, LY#, MO%, MO#, Nucleated Red Blood Cell
EO%, EO#, BA%, BA#, NRBC%, NRBC#, (NRBC) on whole blood
RET%, RET#, MRV, IRF • Total Nucleated Count (TNC)
• Pre-Diluted Whole Blood (Venous and and Red Cell Count (RBC) on
Capillary) – WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, Body Fluids (cerebrospinal,
MCV, MCH, MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, serous and synovial) (BF)
PLT, MPV
• Body Fluids (cerebrospinal, serous and
synovial) – TNC and RBC
Principles of Aperture impedance (Coulter® Principle) Same
Measurement: WBC,
RBC, MCV, Plt, BF-
TNC, BF-RBC
Principle of Spectrophotometric Same
Measurement: Hgb
Principles of VCSn Technology using: Same
Measurement: WBC • Aperture impedance (DC)
Differential, Retic & • Conductivity (RF)
NRBC • Laser Light Scatter (Multiple angles)
• Laser Light Absorbance
Analysis Reagents COULTER® DxH Diluent Same
COULTER® DxH Diff Pack
COULTER® DxH Retic Pack
COULTER® DxH Cell Lyse
Quality Controls & COULTER® 6C Cell Control Same
Calibrator COULTER® Latron™ CP-X Control
COULTER® RETIC-X Cell Control
COULTER® LIN-X Control
COULTER® Body Fluids Control
COULTER® S-CAL® Calibrator kit
Cleaning Agent COULTER® DxH Cleaner Same
System configuration Bench top or Optional Floor Stand - Same
provides self-contained support for the
analyzer as well as easy access storage for
reagents and waste containers
PC based workstation running Microsoft
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities								
	Item			Device: UniCel® DxH 800			Predicate: UniCel® DxH 800	
				Update (Software 2.0)				
Intended Use and
Function			The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer is a
quantitative multi-parameter, automated
hematology analyzer for in vitro diagnostic
use in screening patient populations found
in clinical laboratories.
The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer identifies
and enumerates the parameters indicated
below on the following sample types:
• Whole Blood (Venous and Capillary) –
WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH,
MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD, PLT, MPV,
NE%, NE#, LY%, LY#, MO%, MO#,
EO%, EO#, BA%, BA#, NRBC%, NRBC#,
RET%, RET#, MRV, IRF
• Pre-Diluted Whole Blood (Venous and
Capillary) – WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT,
MCV, MCH, MCHC, RDW, RDW-SD,
PLT, MPV
• Body Fluids (cerebrospinal, serous and
synovial) – TNC and RBC			The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer
is a quantitative, automated
hematology analyzer for in vitro
diagnostic use in screening
patient populations found in
clinical laboratories.
The UniCel® DxH 800 Analyzer
provides a:
• Complete Blood Count (CBC),
Leukocyte 5 Part Differential
(Diff), Reticulocyte (Retic) and
Nucleated Red Blood Cell
(NRBC) on whole blood
• Total Nucleated Count (TNC)
and Red Cell Count (RBC) on
Body Fluids (cerebrospinal,
serous and synovial) (BF)		
Principles of
Measurement: WBC,
RBC, MCV, Plt, BF-
TNC, BF-RBC			Aperture impedance (Coulter® Principle)			Same		
Principle of
Measurement: Hgb			Spectrophotometric			Same		
Principles of
Measurement: WBC
Differential, Retic &
NRBC			VCSn Technology using:
• Aperture impedance (DC)
• Conductivity (RF)
• Laser Light Scatter (Multiple angles)
• Laser Light Absorbance			Same		
Analysis Reagents			COULTER® DxH Diluent
COULTER® DxH Diff Pack
COULTER® DxH Retic Pack
COULTER® DxH Cell Lyse			Same		
Quality Controls &
Calibrator			COULTER® 6C Cell Control
COULTER® Latron™ CP-X Control
COULTER® RETIC-X Cell Control
COULTER® LIN-X Control
COULTER® Body Fluids Control
COULTER® S-CAL® Calibrator kit			Same		
Cleaning Agent			COULTER® DxH Cleaner			Same		
System configuration			Bench top or Optional Floor Stand -
provides self-contained support for the
analyzer as well as easy access storage for
reagents and waste containers
PC based workstation running Microsoft			Same		

--- Page 6 ---
Similarities
Item Device: UniCel®DxH 800 Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800
Update (Software 2.0)
Windows XP application specific software
Handheld Barcode Scanner
Printer
Aspiration Pathway Single sampling probe and common Same
aspiration pathway used for all sample
presentation modes
Sample Aspiration Automatic, cap-piercing: 165 μL Same
Volume Single tube - open-vial and cap pierce: 165
μL
Predilute 165 µL - fixed ratio of 1 in 5
dilution of blood with diluent
Sample Preparation Rotary blood sampling valve (BSV) and Same
syringe aspiration / dispense for blood
segmentation / distribution
Rotary ceramic piston pumps driven by
stepper motors for reagent delivery
CBC dilutions mixed vial tangential
delivery to baths
VCSn dilutions mixed by air jet in reaction
chambers
Reagents are temperature stabilized for
analysis reactions
Throughput : CBC ≥ 100 specimens per hour Same
Automated cassette CBC/Diff ≥ 100 specimens per hour
processing
CBC/Diff/NRBC ≥ 90 specimens per hour
Any cycle with Retic ≥ 45 specimens per
hour
Throughput is based on normal specimens –
analytical cycle times are increased with
cytopenic specimens
Differences
Item Device: UniCel® DxH 800 Predicate: UniCel® DxH 800
Update (Software 2.0)
Sampling Mechanism Same as predicate with: Single tube presentation – open
• Updates to provide dedicated cassette and and closed vial sampling
mixing profile for specific tubes Automated presentation – closed
vial sampling from 5 position
cassette
Maximum initial load capacity
20 racks
Mechanisms for Same as predicate with: Mechanisms to achieve process
processing • Updates for device reliability, of: automated cassette
manufacturability and serviceability transportation and specimen
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities								
	Item			Device: UniCel®DxH 800			Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800	
				Update (Software 2.0)				
			Windows XP application specific software
Handheld Barcode Scanner
Printer					
Aspiration Pathway			Single sampling probe and common
aspiration pathway used for all sample
presentation modes			Same		
Sample Aspiration
Volume			Automatic, cap-piercing: 165 μL
Single tube - open-vial and cap pierce: 165
μL
Predilute 165 µL - fixed ratio of 1 in 5
dilution of blood with diluent			Same		
Sample Preparation			Rotary blood sampling valve (BSV) and
syringe aspiration / dispense for blood
segmentation / distribution
Rotary ceramic piston pumps driven by
stepper motors for reagent delivery
CBC dilutions mixed vial tangential
delivery to baths
VCSn dilutions mixed by air jet in reaction
chambers
Reagents are temperature stabilized for
analysis reactions			Same		
Throughput :
Automated cassette
processing			CBC ≥ 100 specimens per hour
CBC/Diff ≥ 100 specimens per hour
CBC/Diff/NRBC ≥ 90 specimens per hour
Any cycle with Retic ≥ 45 specimens per
hour
Throughput is based on normal specimens –
analytical cycle times are increased with
cytopenic specimens			Same		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Differences								
	Item			Device: UniCel® DxH 800			Predicate: UniCel® DxH 800	
				Update (Software 2.0)				
Sampling Mechanism			Same as predicate with:
• Updates to provide dedicated cassette and
mixing profile for specific tubes			Single tube presentation – open
and closed vial sampling
Automated presentation – closed
vial sampling from 5 position
cassette
Maximum initial load capacity
20 racks		
Mechanisms for
processing			Same as predicate with:
• Updates for device reliability,
manufacturability and serviceability			Mechanisms to achieve process
of: automated cassette
transportation and specimen		

--- Page 7 ---
Differences
Item Device: UniCel®DxH 800 Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800
Update (Software 2.0)
mixing (by rocking), sample
aspiration, sample preparation,
sample and reagent presentation
to analytical modules, sample
analysis, raw data collection,
algorithmic processing and data
reporting
Cassette transportation by
magnetic drive allowing multi-
directional moves and capability
to return cassette to sampling
position for repeat / reflex testing
Sample identification Same as predicate with: Sample aspiration module
• Corrections to address sample (SAM) mounted barcode reader
identification related recalls for automated barcode reading of
• Updates to add capability for host query cassette and sample tube
communication with Laboratory identifiers
Information System (LIS) Manual barcode scanning of
sample tube identifier
(Handheld scanner)
Manual keyboard entry of
sample identifier
Data Analysis Same as predicate with: Raw information is digitized
• Enhancements for improved flagging from all analytical modules and
passed to workstation for
algorithmic processing
Algorithms using advanced
mathematical methods for
population differentiation and
flagging centralized within
workstation
Data reporting Same as predicate with: Workstation display graphics,
• Corrections to address data reporting hardcopy printing and
related recalls transmission to Laboratory
• Updates to include revised LIS Information System (LIS)
communication protocol to improve
software performance and additional printer
support functions
Controlling software Same as predicate with: System software (embedded and
• Corrections to address software related workstation) designed specific to
recalls support all features of DxH 800.
• Updates to improve removal of cleaning The software system consists of
agent during Shutdown and Daily Checks a Data Manager component, a
and monitoring of Sample and Sheath System Manager component
pressure sensors reading to detect when (including algorithms), the User
sensors are disconnected Interface, all of which are
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Differences								
	Item			Device: UniCel®DxH 800			Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800	
				Update (Software 2.0)				
						mixing (by rocking), sample
aspiration, sample preparation,
sample and reagent presentation
to analytical modules, sample
analysis, raw data collection,
algorithmic processing and data
reporting
Cassette transportation by
magnetic drive allowing multi-
directional moves and capability
to return cassette to sampling
position for repeat / reflex testing		
Sample identification			Same as predicate with:
• Corrections to address sample
identification related recalls
• Updates to add capability for host query
communication with Laboratory
Information System (LIS)			Sample aspiration module
(SAM) mounted barcode reader
for automated barcode reading of
cassette and sample tube
identifiers
Manual barcode scanning of
sample tube identifier
(Handheld scanner)
Manual keyboard entry of
sample identifier		
Data Analysis			Same as predicate with:
• Enhancements for improved flagging			Raw information is digitized
from all analytical modules and
passed to workstation for
algorithmic processing
Algorithms using advanced
mathematical methods for
population differentiation and
flagging centralized within
workstation		
Data reporting			Same as predicate with:
• Corrections to address data reporting
related recalls
• Updates to include revised LIS
communication protocol to improve
software performance and additional printer
support functions			Workstation display graphics,
hardcopy printing and
transmission to Laboratory
Information System (LIS)		
Controlling software			Same as predicate with:
• Corrections to address software related
recalls
• Updates to improve removal of cleaning
agent during Shutdown and Daily Checks
and monitoring of Sample and Sheath
pressure sensors reading to detect when
sensors are disconnected			System software (embedded and
workstation) designed specific to
support all features of DxH 800.
The software system consists of
a Data Manager component, a
System Manager component
(including algorithms), the User
Interface, all of which are		

--- Page 8 ---
Differences
Item Device: UniCel®DxH 800 Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800
Update (Software 2.0)
• Software architecture changes that provide resident in the Workstation. In
a foundation for future product addition an Embedded
enhancements and platform expansion Application is resident in the
analyzer. The Embedded
application uploads from the
workstation on system power-up
Extensive real time monitoring
and reporting of system status
including:
• Component and module
activities
• System Voltages and Currents
• System Pressure and Vacuum
• System Temperatures
• Motor activity
• Mechanism Sensor status
• Reagent Pump Operation
• Raw data collection
Performance Claims Performance claims are the same as the As stated in the Instructions for
predicate DxH 800 with the following Use for the predicate device
updates based on alignment to current
clinical testing standards:
• Updated Operating and Measuring ranges
for selected parameters
To align selected parameter lower limits
with background, Limit of Blank, Limit of
Detection and Limit of Quantitation
To align selected upper parameter limits
with values seen in clinical conditions
• Updated NRBC Carryover specification
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Premarket Notifications for Automated
Differential Cell Counters for Immature or Abnormal Blood Cells; Final Guidance for
Industry and FDA
CLSI EP5-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods;
Approved Guideline-Second Edition
CLSI H26-A2, Validation, Verification, and Quality Assurance of Automated Hematology
Analyzers; Approved Standard-Second Edition
CLSI EP6-A, Evaluation of the Linearity of Quantitative Measurement Procedures: A
Statistical Approach; Approved Guideline
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Differences								
	Item			Device: UniCel®DxH 800			Predicate: UniCel®DxH 800	
				Update (Software 2.0)				
			• Software architecture changes that provide
a foundation for future product
enhancements and platform expansion			resident in the Workstation. In
addition an Embedded
Application is resident in the
analyzer. The Embedded
application uploads from the
workstation on system power-up
Extensive real time monitoring
and reporting of system status
including:
• Component and module
activities
• System Voltages and Currents
• System Pressure and Vacuum
• System Temperatures
• Motor activity
• Mechanism Sensor status
• Reagent Pump Operation
• Raw data collection		
Performance Claims			Performance claims are the same as the
predicate DxH 800 with the following
updates based on alignment to current
clinical testing standards:
• Updated Operating and Measuring ranges
for selected parameters
To align selected parameter lower limits
with background, Limit of Blank, Limit of
Detection and Limit of Quantitation
To align selected upper parameter limits
with values seen in clinical conditions
• Updated NRBC Carryover specification			As stated in the Instructions for
Use for the predicate device		

--- Page 9 ---
CLSI H20-A2, Reference Leukocyte (WBC) Differential Count (Proportional) and
Evaluation of Instrumental Methods; Approved Standard-Second Edition
CLSI H56-A, Body Fluid Analysis for Cellular Composition; Approved Guideline
CLSI EP9-A2, Method Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient Samples; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition
CLSI EP17-A, Protocol for Determination of Limits of Detection and Limits of Quantitation;
Approved Guideline
CLSI C28-A3, Defining, Establishing, and Verifying Reference Intervals in the Clinical
Laboratory; Approved Guideline-Third Edition
CLSI EP15-A2, User Verification of Performance for Precision and Trueness; Approved
Guideline-Second Edition
CLSI H3-A6, Procedures for the Collection of Diagnostic Blood Specimens by
Venipuncture; Approved Standard-Sixth Edition
CLSI H4-A6, Procedures and Devices for the Collection of Diagnostic Capillary Blood
Specimens; Approved Standard-Sixth Edition
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Whole Blood (WB) Comparability
A total of 952 whole blood specimens were analyzed at four test sites. Each of the
samples was analyzed in duplicate on the updated DxH 800 and on the predicate
device to obtain a Complete Blood Count, WBC Differential, including NRBC’s, and
Reticulocyte measurements. For each whole blood sample, two manual wedge
smears were prepared and stained using a Wright-Giemsa stain. A manual
(reference) 200-cell differential was performed on each of the prepared stained blood
films by different technologists to obtain a 400-cell differential according to CLSI
H20-A2. For neonate and infant specimens, a single analysis was performed on the
updated DxH 800 and the results from the test sites’ clinical analyzer were used as the
predicate device results. In addition, a single blood film and single 200-cell
differential was performed.
The results from the first replicate for each of the specimens from the test and
predicate devices and the results of the manual differential were used for the
comparison analysis. All data passed specifications.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Body Fluid (BF) Comparability
A total of 289 body fluid specimens, collected across three sites, were analyzed by the
test device and manual reference. Of these, 166 were also analyzed on the predicate
device. Each of the samples was analyzed in duplicate on the updated DxH 800 and
reference manual chamber counts were performed. If the volume of specimen
permitted it was also analyzed in duplicate on the predicate device. The results from
the first replicate for each of the specimens from the predicate and test devices and
the results of the manual chamber count were used for the comparison analysis. All
data passed specifications.
Clinical Sensitivity/Specificity
A total of 870 whole blood specimens were analyzed for the clinical sensitivity and
specificity testing at four test sites. Each of the specimens was analyzed in duplicate
on an updated DxH 800 and the predicate device. For each whole blood specimen,
two wedge smears were prepared and stained using a Wright-Giemsa stain. A manual
(reference) 200-cell differential was performed on each of the prepared stained blood
films by different technologists to obtain a 400-cell differential according to CLSI
H20-A2. For neonate and infant specimens, a single analysis was performed on the
updated DxH 800 and the results from the test sites’ clinical analyzer were used as the
predicate device results. In addition a single blood film and single 200-cell
differential was performed. The presence or absence of an abnormality on the blood
film, i.e., reference positive or negative was determined using The International
Consensus Group for Hematology Review guideline: Suggested Criteria for Action
Following Automated CBC and WBC Differential Analysis.
The DxH 800 Suspect messages from the first specimen replicate were compared to
the reference manual differential to determine the true positives (TP), true negatives
(TN), false positives (FP), and false negatives (FN). The clinical sensitivity and
specificity was calculated from the combined data from all sites, for each of the
Suspect messages (Blasts, Variant Lymphocyte, Left Shift or Immature Granulocyte)
generated by the updated DxH 800. In addition, an “Overall” analysis assessment
was performed where the presence of any one suspect message was considered to
represent detection of an abnormal sample for the updated DxH 800 and the
predicate. Analysis of the data collected demonstrates that the updated DxH 800
provided equivalent performance for Clinical Sensitivity and Specificity of the
differential suspect messages as compared to the predicate device analyzing the same
data set.
Clinical Sensitivity and Specificity:
10

--- Page 11 ---
All Sites Combined “Overall” and by individual suspect message
Overall Blasts Variant Left Shift Immature
Lymphs Granulocytes
TP 143 39 37 41 75
TN 581 758 767 714 724
FP 116 50 45 109 62
FN 30 23 21 6 9
Total 870 870 870 870 870
% Sensitivity (TP) 82.66 62.90 63.79 87.23 89.29
95% Lower Limit (TP) 77.02 50.88 51.42 77.69 82.67
95% Upper Limit (TP) 88.30 74.93 76.16 96.77 95.90
% Specificity (TN) 83.36 93.81 94.46 86.76 92.11
95% Lower Limit (TN) 80.59 92.15 92.88 84.44 90.23
95% Upper Limit (TN) 86.12 95.47 96.03 89.07 94.00
% Efficiency 83.22 91.61 92.41 86.78 91.84
Clinical Sensitivity and Specificity:
Test vs. Predicate - Overall flagging
Overall Blasts
TP 143 123
TN 581 582
FP 116 117
FN 30 51
Total 870 873
% Sensitivity (TP) 82.66 70.69
95% Lower Limit (TP) 77.02 63.93
95% Upper Limit (TP) 88.30 77.45
% Specificity (TN) 83.36 83.26
95% Lower Limit (TN) 80.59 80.49
95% Upper Limit (TN) 86.12 86.03
% Efficiency 83.22 80.76
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Imprecision (Reproducibility)
Reproducibility testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate the
long term imprecision of the device using multiple levels of control materials (3
levels of 6C Cell Controls and 3 levels of Body Fluid Controls) for CBC, Differential,
NRBC, Reticulocyte and Body Fluid parameters. Testing was conducted at four test
sites using a single lot of each product throughout the test period. At three of the test
sites; each level of control was analyzed in duplicate, twice a day, for a minimum of
20 days and 14 days of data was collected at site 4. Data from site 4 was accepted
and included in the analysis.
Data were analyzed separately for each site and for the pooled data from all sites
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
	Overall	Blasts	Variant
Lymphs	Left Shift	Immature
Granulocytes
TP	143	39	37	41	75
TN	581	758	767	714	724
FP	116	50	45	109	62
FN	30	23	21	6	9
Total	870	870	870	870	870
% Sensitivity (TP)	82.66	62.90	63.79	87.23	89.29
95% Lower Limit (TP)	77.02	50.88	51.42	77.69	82.67
95% Upper Limit (TP)	88.30	74.93	76.16	96.77	95.90
% Specificity (TN)	83.36	93.81	94.46	86.76	92.11
95% Lower Limit (TN)	80.59	92.15	92.88	84.44	90.23
95% Upper Limit (TN)	86.12	95.47	96.03	89.07	94.00
% Efficiency	83.22	91.61	92.41	86.78	91.84

[Table 2 on page 11]
	Overall	Blasts
TP	143	123
TN	581	582
FP	116	117
FN	30	51
Total	870	873
% Sensitivity (TP)	82.66	70.69
95% Lower Limit (TP)	77.02	63.93
95% Upper Limit (TP)	88.30	77.45
% Specificity (TN)	83.36	83.26
95% Lower Limit (TN)	80.59	80.49
95% Upper Limit (TN)	86.12	86.03
% Efficiency	83.22	80.76

--- Page 12 ---
using all replicates. For each site, the coefficient of variation (CV) and standard
deviation (SD) for between-day, within-day, within-run, and within-lab were
estimated. For pooled data on the STA-R® analyzer from the three sites, the CV and
SD for between-site, between-day, within-day, within-run, within-lab and
reproducibility were estimated. All data passed defined acceptance limits.
Imprecision (Repeatability)
Repeatability testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate the short
term imprecision of the device. Testing was performed at four sites using replicate
measurements of specimens in the normal range, at medical decision levels and over
the analytical measuring interval using whole blood (or control products at specified
target ranges), pre-diluted whole blood and body fluid specimens. An n=10 replicates
was targeted for each specimen. At least three specimens were analyzed in each of
the defined target ranges. Each specimen within a parameter target range was tested
in a different analytical cycle (CBC (C), CBC/DIFF (CD), CBC/DIFF/Retic (CDR),
CBC/Retic (CR), and Retic (R)). All data for each specimen analyzed at all test sites
was pooled and modeled as a precision profile. The precision profile was then used
to estimate imprecision at defined levels over the analytical measuring interval.
The mean, SD and %CV were calculated for each specimen. These data were
combined to build precision profiles. This approach is based on the %CV of repeated
measurements from all samples modeled as a function of their means in accordance
with CLSI EP05-A2 and H26-A2 standards. Profiles were calculated using all
samples, combining the analytical modes and instruments at all sites. All data passed
defined acceptance limits.
Pre-Dilute Imprecision (Repeatability)
Ten whole blood specimens were selected to provide a broad coverage of the
measuring ranges for the parameters for which repeatability claims are made (WBC,
RBC, HGB and PLT). Testing was conducted at two test sites. For each whole blood
sample selected, 10 separate 1:5 dilutions were prepared. Each prepared dilution was
analyzed using the pre-dilute analytical cycle of the updated DxH 800. The pre-dilute
analytical cycle only provides results for CBC parameters.
The same analytical approach of using precision profiles, as described in the whole
blood repeatability imprecision analysis, was used for the pre-dilute analysis. All
data passed defined acceptance limits.
Body Fluid Imprecision (Repeatability)
Body Fluid specimens were selected based on parameter values within specific test
ranges. Three test sites ran at least three samples at each defined test range using any
of the body fluid types (cerebrospinal, serous or synovial). Twenty seven (27) and 34
body fluid specimens were used for the BF-RBC and BF-TNC measurands
12

--- Page 13 ---
respectively. The same analytical approach of using precision profiles, as described
in the whole blood imprecision analysis, was used for the body fluid analysis. All
data passed defined acceptance limits.
c. Linearity:
Linearity testing by serial dilution was conducted at one test site. Linearity was
assessed by performing multiple measurements on specimens diluted to cover the
analytical measuring interval (AMI). The concentrations were prepared so that the
relative concentration of each sample was known. Linearity analysis for WBC and
PLT parameters was performed in three separate dilution series, indicated as “Low”,
“Mid” and “High”. The RBC, HGB, BF-TNC and BF-RBC parameters were
assessed with two separate dilution series indicated as “Mid” and “High”. For each
of the high target value specimens, a series of 10 dilutions were prepared. The
dilutions were prepared using DxH Diluent as the Low (LTV). Each dilution within
the dilution series was analyzed in triplicate in random order using the
CBC/Differential (CD) analytical cycle on the updated DxH 800. All data passed
specifications.
d. Carryover:
Testing was performed to demonstrate whole blood and body fluid carryover
performance of the updated DxH 800. Whole blood carryover was assessed by
running whole blood specimens with high parameter values followed by diluent
samples. This testing was performed to assess carryover within and between the
different analytical cycles (test panels) on the updated DxH 800. Testing was
conducted at four sites to cover all combinations of analytical cycles (i.e., C, CD,
CDR, CR, R). The testing was performed by running the selected high whole blood
specimen three times followed by the analysis of three diluent specimens (a new
diluent specimen was used for each analysis). For whole blood, the WBC, RBC,
HGB & PLT parameters, carryover is calculated as:
%Carryover = [(diluent 1 - diluent 3) / (blood sample 3 - diluent 3)] x100
For the NRBC, Differential and Retic analysis carryover is reported as total events
(cells) counted in each of the diluent specimens. All data passed acceptance limits.
Measurand % Carryover
WBC ≤ 0.50%
RBC ≤ 0.50%
HGB ≤ 1.00%
PLT ≤ 1.00%
Measurand Carryover (events or cells counted)
NRBC ≤ 75 events (WBC = 0 - 300 x 103/µL)
≤ 100 events (WBC > 300 x 103/µL)
DIFF ≤ 200 events
Retic ≤ 600 events
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
Measurand	% Carryover
WBC	≤ 0.50%
RBC	≤ 0.50%
HGB	≤ 1.00%
PLT	≤ 1.00%
Measurand	Carryover (events or cells counted)
NRBC	≤ 75 events (WBC = 0 - 300 x 103/µL)
≤ 100 events (WBC > 300 x 103/µL)
DIFF	≤ 200 events
Retic	≤ 600 events

--- Page 14 ---
Body Fluid Carryover
Carryover that could influence a body fluid result was assessed by running whole
blood specimens with high parameter values followed by diluent analyzed in the body
fluid analytical cycle. Testing was conducted at four sites to assess all analytical
cycles (i.e., C, CD, CDR, R) preceding a BF analytical cycle. The carryover testing
was performed by running the selected high whole blood specimen three times
followed by the analysis of three diluent specimens in the BF analytical cycle (a new
diluent specimen was used for each analysis). For Body Fluid parameters, carryover
is calculated as the cell counts in each of the diluent specimens from the analysis. All
data passed specifications.
Measurand Carryover (events or cells counted)
BF-RBC ≤ 1000 events
BF-TNC ≤ 20 events
e. Interfering Substances:
Refer to the DxH 800 predicate device (k081930).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a. Stability Studies:
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate whole blood
specimen stability. Testing was performed on whole blood specimens at various time
intervals (long-term and short-term) and stored at refrigerated and room temperature.
In addition, testing was performed on pre-diluted specimens.
Long Term Stability
Forty-one normal specimens were collected for the room temperature long-term
stability study, and 41 normal specimens were collected for the refrigerated long-term
stability. Twenty-one of the specimens were common to both studies. Testing was
conducted at three test sites. For each of the specimens selected, sufficient aliquots
were prepared to allow analysis of a new aliquot at each of the defined time intervals
and storage temperatures.
Time zero (T0) results were established by analyzing each blood specimen within two
hours of collection. At the storage time intervals, a new specimen aliquot was
removed from storage, and prior to analysis, aliquots were manually mixed by
inversion 20 times. In addition, those removed from refrigerated storage were
allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for 30 minutes and then hand mixed again
by inversion 20 times prior to placing on the device for analysis. Each aliquot was
analyzed in duplicate to obtain CBC, Differential and Retic results.
The upper limit of the drift was compared to the specification. The data was
14

[Table 1 on page 14]
Measurand	Carryover (events or cells counted)
BF-RBC	≤ 1000 events
BF-TNC	≤ 20 events

--- Page 15 ---
considered to meet specification when the 95% upper limit of drift for a parameter
was less than the specification limit for the parameter. All data passed specifications.
Short Term Stability
Specimens were collected from 11 volunteers from the Beckman Coulter donor
program. Blood from each volunteer was drawn into both K and K EDTA tubes for
2 3
a total of 22 specimens. For each of the specimens, sufficient aliquots were prepared
to allow a new aliquot to be analyzed at each of the defined time intervals. Time zero
results were established by analyzing each blood specimen in duplicate within five
minutes of collection. At the storage time intervals, a new specimen aliquot was
removed from storage. This testing was only performed on specimens stored at room
temperature as the short storage durations make refrigerated storage impractical.
After removal from storage, each specimen was manually mixed by inversion 20
times prior to being placed on the device for analysis in duplicate to obtain CBC,
Differential and Retic results.
The claims were met when the 95% upper limits of the drift for a parameter was less
than the specification for the parameter. All data passed specifications.
Pre-dilute Stability
Testing of 37 clinical whole blood samples was performed at two test sites. For each
specimen selected, a primary 1:5 dilution was prepared. Sufficient aliquots were
prepared to allow analysis of a new pre-dilute aliquot at each of the defined time
intervals. Time zero (T0) results were established by analysis of the dilution
immediately after preparation. At the storage time intervals, a new pre-diluted
specimen aliquot was removed from storage and each pre-diluted aliquot was
manually mixed and analyzed in duplicate using the pre-dilute test panel on the
device to obtain CBC results.
The claims were met when the 95% upper limits of the drift for a parameter was less
than the respective acceptance limit for the parameter. All data passed specifications.
b. Accuracy (Comparability) - Analytical Cycles
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate equivalency of results
(within defined limits) between the whole blood analytical cycles (test panels), CBC
(C), CBC/DIFF (CD), CBC/DIFF/Retic (CDR), CBC/Retic (CR), Retic (R) when
specimens are analyzed using the automated closed vial sampling method. In
addition, testing was performed to demonstrate equivalency between specimens
analyzed as whole blood and as Pre-dilute (PD) specimens.
Whole Blood – Analytical Cycle Comparability
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate equivalency of results
15

--- Page 16 ---
(within defined limits) between the whole blood analytical cycles (test panels), CBC
(C), CBC/DIFF (CD), CBC/DIFF/Retic (CDR), CBC/Retic (CR), Retic (R) when
specimens are analyzed using the automated closed vial sampling method. A total of
50 whole blood specimens were analyzed in the study. Testing was conducted at a
single test site. All specimens were analyzed in duplicate in each of the analytical
cycles (test panels) using the automated closed vial sampling method. All data passed
specifications.
Whole blood vs. Pre-dilute Analytical Cycle Comparability
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate equivalency of results
(within defined limits) between specimens analyzed as whole blood and pre-diluted
blood. A total of 58 clinical specimens were collected for the study. Testing was
conducted at two test sites. All specimens were analyzed in duplicate as a whole
blood specimen and as a 1:5 dilution. The whole blood specimens were analyzed
using the CBC, Differential and Retic (CDR) analytical cycle using the automated
closed vial sampling method and the prepared pre-diluted specimen was analyzed
using pre-dilute analytical cycle using the manual single tube closed vial sampling
method. All data passed specifications.
c. Accuracy (Comparability) - Sampling Methods
Testing was performed to demonstrate comparability between the sampling modes
available on the updated DxH 800. Testing compared: 1) the automated closed vial
with the manual closed-vial sampling, and 2) the manual closed-vial with the manual
open vial methods using the CBC, Differential and Retic analytical cycle.
Automated closed-vial vs. Manual closed-vial Comparability
A total of 45 whole blood specimens were analyzed in the study at a single test site.
All specimens were analyzed in duplicate using automated closed-vial and manual
closed-vial sampling methods using the CBC, Differential and Retic (CDR) analytical
cycle. All data passed specifications.
Manual closed-vial vs. Manual open-vial Comparability
A total of 44 whole blood specimens were analyzed in the study at a single test site.
All specimens were analyzed in duplicate using manual closed-vial and manual open-
vial sampling methods using the CDR panel. All data passed defined specifications.
d. Anticoagulant types
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate equivalency of results
for whole blood specimens collected into K and K EDTA anticoagulant. Two
2 3
venous specimens were collected prospectively by venipuncture from each donor: one
into a tube containing K EDTA, the other containing K EDTA. Specimens were
2 3
collected from 127 volunteers from the Beckman Coulter donor program. All
specimens were analyzed in duplicate on a single test device to obtain CBC,
16

--- Page 17 ---
Differential and Retic results using the instrument automated closed vial sampling
method. All data passed specifications.
e. Collection Method
Testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate equivalency of results
for specimens collected by venipuncture and capillary collection methods. Two
venous tubes were collected prospectively from each donor, one by venipuncture, the
other by finger stick (capillary) into tubes containing a salt of EDTA. Specimens
were collected from 53 volunteers from the Beckman Coulter donor program. All
specimens were analyzed in duplicate to obtain CBC, Differential and Retic results
using the instrument sampling method applicable to the specimen type (automated
closed-vial for the venous specimen and the manual open-vial for the capillary
specimen). All data passed specifications.
f. Determination of limit of blank, lower limits of detection and quantitation:
Limit of Blank (LoB):
DxH Diluent samples were used as the blank specimen for the LoB testing since
within the analytical process the diluent is the primary contributor to any impact to
the blank results. Each blank specimen tube was sampled only once. Whole blood
specimens were manipulated to obtain the cellularity required. Cells from whole
blood were used to generate specimens of appropriate cellularity for the testing as
Body Fluid specimens having appropriate cellularity and volume are not readily
available. Testing was conducted on three updated DxH 800 systems at the Beckman
Coulter Clinical Quality Assurance laboratory.
Whole Blood: A total of 160 diluent specimens (blank) were analyzed. Thirty-two
tubes of diluent were analyzed each day for five days. Sixteen tubes were analyzed in
the morning and 16 in the afternoon. The tubes were divided into four groups of four
tubes. Each group was analyzed in one of the four DxH 800 test panels that analyze
and report whole blood WBC and PLT counts (CBC, CBC/DIFF, CBC/DIFF/Retic,
and CBC/Retic).
Body fluid: A total of 150 diluent specimens (blank) were analyzed. Thirty tubes of
diluent were analyzed each day for five days. Fifteen tubes were analyzed in the
morning and 15 tubes in the afternoon using the Body Fluid test panel. Results for
the LoB met specifications.
Limit of Detection (LoD)
To determine the LLoD, the standard deviation of sample measurements is obtained
from repeated measurements of samples with relevant low concentrations. A
concentration in the range from the LoB to approximately 4x LoB was used to obtain
data to be used to estimate precision at these levels. Primary specimens for each of
17

--- Page 18 ---
the parameters to be tested were prepared to achieve cell concentration of
approximately 4x the LoB specification.
Four different whole blood specimens were used to generate four different primary
specimens, one for each of the parameters to be analyzed, for a total of 16 primary
specimens. Using these primary specimens as the 100% concentration, a series of 10
dilutions were prepared, using DxH Diluent as the blank to dilute the specimen. Each
of the series of concentrations was analyzed n = 5 on each of the test devices on the
day they were prepared (Day 1) and n = 5 on the following day (Day 2) for a total of
ten replicates per level. Results for the LLoD met specifications.
Limit of Quantitation (LoQ)
The lower limit of quantitation (LLoQ) was calculated based on experimental data
collected during the estimation of the LLoD to estimate within laboratory precision
and bias. Analytical bias (difference from reference) of the test devices was
established by duplicate analysis of five specimens having values established from a
reference device whose calibration is traceable to whole blood reference methods.
This process was performed on each of the eight days over which the LLoD testing
occurred and was used in the LLoQ calculations as “Bias”.
Using the defined device accuracy and precision specification, expected Total Error
(TE) was determined for the LLoD specification level. The LLoQ data are
considered to be acceptable if the TE estimated from the testing is less than the
expected TE calculated from the LLoQ acceptance limits defined in the requirements.
Results for LLoQ passed acceptance limits.
g. Reference Intervals:
Confirmatory testing was performed on the updated DxH 800 to demonstrate
comparability of whole blood reference ranges for an adult population to the ranges
established for the predicate device. Prospective samples were collected in K EDTA
2
from a total of 127 volunteers (male=61; female=66) from the Beckman Coulter
donor program. All specimens were analyzed in duplicate on a single test device to
obtain CBC, Differential and Retic results using the closed vial sampling method.
The upper and lower parameter value limits of the established reference range, as
provided in the predicate device labeling were compared to the current, confirmatory
data set using a non-parametric approach. Limits were considered to not differ
statistically when the 95% confidence intervals of the upper and lower limits of the
two data sets overlapped. The reference ranges established for the predicate DxH 800
are applicable for the updated DxH 800. The updated DxH 800 labeling will provide
the reference ranges as currently presented in the predicate labeling.
18

--- Page 19 ---
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
19