
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER: k120042
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary) for the TD-4268 Blood Glucose Monitoring System and TD-4268 Multi
Blood Glucose Monitoring System:
1. The name and 510(k) number of SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device: TD-4239 Blood Glucose
Monitoring System and TD-4239 Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System (k101635)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials. (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
· Change to meter shell colors and shape
· Size and weight of meter from 95mm x 49mm x14mm (LxWxH) and 42g to 95mm x 55mm x
20 mm and 76.2g
· Button configuration
· Addition of backlight
· Power source from one 3V CR2032 lithium battery to two 1.5V AAA batteries
· Increased memory from 400 to 1000 measurements
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has

--- Page 2 ---
2
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
The device is intended for single-patient (TD-4268 Blood Glucose Monitoring System) or multiple-
patient use (TD-4268 Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System). Disinfection efficacy studies were
performed on the materials comprising the meters by an outside commercial testing service
demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with Micro-Kill Plus™ disposable wipes
(EPA Reg. No: 59894-10-37549). The sponsor also demonstrated that there was no change in
performance or in the external materials of the meter after 10,000 cleaning and disinfection cycles
designed to simulate 3 years of multiple-patient use by healthcare professionals and 5 years of
single-patient use. Labeling has been reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning
and disinfection procedures.