
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k120558
B. Purpose for Submission:
This is a New Diabetes Data Manager for use with OneTouch® Verio Sync Blood
Glucose Monitoring System (k120708).
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
LIFESCAN, Inc.
OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
Device Description:
The OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application (App) is a
diabetes management tool that can help the user determine what blood glucose
test results mean. This allows the user and their health care professional to
better monitor and adjust their diabetes care plan. The App is designed to
work in conjunction with the OneTouch® Verio™ Sync Meter. Using the
Bluetooth® feature on the OneTouch® Verio™ Sync meter and Apple® device,
blood sugar test results can be sent directly from the meter to the App.
Principles of Operation:
The OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application has a software
feature that alerts users to low and high blood glucose patterns. This software
feature has also been implemented on another cleared LifeScan blood glucose
meter, the One Touch Verio IQ Blood Glucose Meter.
The OneTouch® Reveal™ Application (App) is designed to run under Apple
iOS 4+ operating systems on the following devices:
• iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS
• iPod Touch 3rd and 4th Gen
• iPad 1st and 2nd Gen
The App stores blood glucose test results, events and user settings. The App's
memory capacity is 2500 blood glucose results and events; and is limited to a
maximum of 1 year of results and events. In addition to receiving blood
glucose measurement readings from the OneTouch Verio Sync Meter via

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
Bluetooth, storing and displaying them, the App provides the following
features and tools for the user:
• Time Synchronization: Synchronizing the time between the App and the
OneTouch Verio Sync Meter.
• Tagging of Results: Allows quick settings of meal tags and notes to results
just downloaded from the meter.
• Pattern Messages: Alerts the user that one or more patterns were found in
the results that were downloaded.
• Events: Allows the user to manually enter data, such as: manual blood
glucose results, carbohydrates consumed, activity performed and
medications taken.
• Sharing: Allows the user to share blood glucose results via SMS text or
email.
Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission: Yes X or No .
Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X____ or No ______

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulatio Panel
Glucose Test NBW: Blood Class II n21 CFR § Clinical
System Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over- (75)
the- Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Module Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
for Clinical Use Module for Clinical (75)
Use
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application is a software
accessory to the OneTouch® Verio Sync Blood Glucose Monitoring System,
and is intended for use in the home setting by people with diabetes. It is
intended to aid in the review, analysis, and evaluation of patient data to
support diabetes management. The OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management
Application receives (from both manual entry and wireless transmission),
stores, and sends patient data for display and reporting. The OneTouch®
Reveal Diabetes Management Application also communicates with web-based
applications. The OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application is
available for use on commercially-available mobile devices and uses generally
available networks and communication protocols.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
WellDoc Diabetes Manager System k100066
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities and Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
OneTouch® Reveal (k100066)
Diabetes Management
Application
Intended Use The OneTouch® Reveal Same
Diabetes Management
Application is a software
accessory to the OneTouch®

[Table 1 on page 3]
Device Name	Product Code	Classification	Regulatio	Panel	
Glucose Test
System	NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-
the- Counter	Class II	n21 CFR §
862.1345		
Calculator/Data
Processing Module
for Clinical Use	JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for Clinical
Use	Class I	21 CFR §
862.2100		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences		
Item	Candidate Device
OneTouch® Reveal
Diabetes Management
Application	Predicate Device
(k100066)
Intended Use	The OneTouch® Reveal
Diabetes Management
Application is a software
accessory to the OneTouch®	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
Verio Sync Blood Glucose
Monitoring System, and is
intended for use in the home
setting by people with
diabetes. It is intended to aid
in the review, analysis, and
evaluation of patient data to
support diabetes
management.
Over-the-Counter Yes Same
Accessory to Glucose meter Yes Same
Intended user Home Users/HCPs Same
Components Mobile Based Application Same
Setting Reminders Yes Same
Connectivity to Bluetooth Same
Meter
Manual Data Entry Yes Same
Logbook Yes Same
Messaging Yes Same
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced
J. Performance Characteristics:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, are presented in the
specific glucose clearance under k120708.
· Analytical Performance:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were presented in
the specific glucose meter clearance under k120708
a) Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b) Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c) Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d) Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e) Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Verio Sync Blood Glucose
Monitoring System, and is
intended for use in the home
setting by people with
diabetes. It is intended to aid
in the review, analysis, and
evaluation of patient data to
support diabetes
management.	
Over-the-Counter	Yes	Same
Accessory to Glucose meter	Yes	Same
Intended user	Home Users/HCPs	Same
Components	Mobile Based Application	Same
Setting Reminders	Yes	Same
Connectivity to
Meter	Bluetooth	Same
Manual Data Entry	Yes	Same
Logbook	Yes	Same
Messaging	Yes	Same

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a) A usability study was performed with One hundred sixty-eight (168)
subjects, including 21 pediatric Subjects (ages 12 to 18 years). The
study was conducted at two clinical sites. Each subject attended two
site visits, with a home testing period between the visits.
During Site Visit 1:
The HCP issued a Home Testing Kit to the Subject and briefed the
Subject on the study procedures and requirements but provided no
training on the OneTouch® Verio BGMS or OneTouch®
VerioOneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application. The
subject demonstrated (without guidance from the HCP) the ability to
pair and sync the OneTouch® Verio meter and the iPod Touch using
the labeling. The HCP and Subject scheduled a date and time for Site
Visit 2 to complete the study.
During the home testing period (5-7 calendar days), the Subject
performed the activities specified on the Home Testing Form using
the OneTouch® Verio BGMS, OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes
Management Application, and labeling.
During Site Visit 2:
· Orientation – The Subject familiarized himself/herself with the
use of the OneTouch® Verio App “Share” feature in the
OneTouch® Verio Application according to the Orientation
Testing Form.
· Instructions for Use – The Subject completed two self-
administered instructions for use questionnaires (Meter
Instructions for Use Questionnaire and App Instructions for Use
Questionnaire).
· Human Factors Assessments – The Subject performed HF tasks;
an HCP observed and evaluated the Subject’s technique and
recorded the results on the Human Factors Assessment Form.
· Subject Feedback – The Subject completed a self-administered
User Acceptance Questionnaire regarding ease of use and other
HF aspects of the OneTouch® Verio BGMS and OneTouch®
Reveal Diabetes Management Application.
· Subjects were briefed on study procedures and requirements but
received no training on use of the OneTouch® Verio BGMS or
OneTouch® Reveal Diabetes Management Application.
Lay User Human Factors Assessments – The success rates for all 44
assessments on the Human Factors Assessment Form meet the
assigned risk-based acceptance criteria of better than 93.8% success,

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
thus validating the critical areas to test that are the basis for those
assessments.
Lay User Feedback – The proportions of neutral-or-better responses
for all 21 items on the User Acceptance Questionnaire meet the
acceptance criterion of meeting better than 81.0% of neutral-or-better
feedbacks, thus validating the critical areas to test that are the basis
for those questionnaire items.
b) Software installation, connectivity and data transmission as intended
to be use, was assessed and verified to achieve 100% accuracy for
data transmission.
c) Bench Testing was performed on data from one meter to test meter
memory rollover and data transmission, this included full memory
data transmission, plus additional data to validate correct data rollover
in the app. All data fields were 100% accurate.
d) The app has the function of being able to link to more than one meter.
The applicant tested 8 meters for configuration syncing and data
transmission. All data fields were 100% correct.
e) Software documentation was reviewed and demonstrated that the
device was developed under appropriate software lifecycle processes.
f) The sponsor provided the results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability
study which indicated a Grade Level Score of 7.8 for the OneTouch®
Reveal Diabetes Management Application and owner’s booklet.
g) The sponsor provided third party device conformity to EMC
standards related to Radio Frequency Fields from Hand-Held and
Body-Mounted Wireless Communication Devices for Specific
Absorption Rate (SAR), and Information Technology Equipment
Safety.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.