
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k120747
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of new device
C. Measurand:
Assayed hematology parameter: PLT-F (103/μL)
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative
E. Applicant:
Streck
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
XN-Cal™ PF
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.8150 - Calibrator for cell indices
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
KRX – Calibrator for cell indices
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
XN CAL PF is used for calibration and calibration verification of Sysmex XN
(XN-10, XN-20) analyzers. Assayed parameter is: PLT-F (103/μL).
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Sysmex XN (XN-10, XN-20) analyzers
I. Device Description:
XN CAL™ PF is an in-vitro diagnostic product that contains the following: stabilized
red blood cell component(s), stabilized platelet component(s) in a preservative
medium. The single level calibrator is packaged in polypropylene plastic vials with
screw caps. The vials will be packaged in (5) welled or (1) welled vacuum formed
clamshell container with the Instructions for Use (IFU)/assay sheet. The product
must be stored at 2 - 8°C.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
X-CAL™ manufactured by Streck
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k083200
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use XN CAL PF is used for calibration X-CAL is used to calibrate
and calibration verification of and verify calibration of
Sysmex XN (XN-10, XN-20) Sysmex hematology
analyzers. The assayed parameter is: analyzers. Refer to product
PLT-F (103/μL). assay sheet.
Closed-vial stability 35 days Same
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			XN CAL PF is used for calibration
and calibration verification of
Sysmex XN (XN-10, XN-20)
analyzers. The assayed parameter is:
PLT-F (103/μL).			X-CAL is used to calibrate
and verify calibration of
Sysmex hematology
analyzers. Refer to product
assay sheet.		
Closed-vial stability			35 days			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Storage conditions 2 - 8°C Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Reagents XN CAL PF contains the following: X-CAL is composed of a
stabilized red blood cell mixture of stabilized human
component(s), and stabilized platelet and animal blood cells. The
component(s), in a preservative cells are suspended in a
medium. solution containing biological
salts and anti-microbial
preservatives
Open-vial stability 4 hours 24 hours
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI H26-A2, Validation, Verification, and Quality Assurance of Automated
Hematology Analyzers, October 2010.
CLSI EP5-A2 Methods, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative
Measurement Methods; Approved Guideline-Second Edition.
L. Test Principle:
XN CAL™ PF is designed to function as a substitute for fresh whole blood to
calibrate the Sysmex XN Series instruments. .XN CAL™ PF is used to calibrate the
platelet count obtained for the PLT-F channel of the Sysmex XN Series analyzers.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Data was collected internally and at two external sites across 4 different
Sysmex XN-10 and XN-20 analyzers with 3 separately manufactured lots of
XN-CAL™ PF. Studies were conducted for each lot at all three (3) sites. The
external sites performed 10 consecutive runs on each XN Series Instrument
with separate vials of calibrator from each lot. Control materials were
shipped, stored, mixed, and handled in accordance with the instructions for
use. The acceptance criteria were based on a compilation of the CV% for
PLT-F. Results collected across the three separately manufactured lots of XN
CAL™ PF demonstrate consistent recovery across multiple instruments, at
multiple sites within the parameter specific assay assignment range set forth
for PLT-F as shown in the table below.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Storage conditions			2 - 8°C			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Reagents			XN CAL PF contains the following:
stabilized red blood cell
component(s), and stabilized platelet
component(s), in a preservative
medium.			X-CAL is composed of a
mixture of stabilized human
and animal blood cells. The
cells are suspended in a
solution containing biological
salts and anti-microbial
preservatives		
Open-vial stability			4 hours			24 hours		

--- Page 4 ---
XN CAL PF CV% summary
Lot # PLT-F (%CV)
1290 1.86
1318 2.59
1346 2.05
Maximum CV% Acceptance Criteria 5
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment:
Streck performed analyses on four Sysmex (XN-10 and XN-20) analyzers
using two vials of calibrator tested a minimum of five times per vial. Data
were entered into the internally validated QC link database program
(validation number PQ-062) to calculate the mean, standard deviation (SD),
and coefficient of variation (CV) for each parameter analyzed. The database
allows computation and comparison of data that is used in the assay value
assignment process as defined by controlled documents. Final assigned
values were determined using data collected and established product
performance characteristics. Expected range values assigned to the calibrator
were based on ± 2.5 SD calculated from the total-run data.
Reagent Stability
The acceptance criterion for open and closed-vial stability was based on a
compilation of the CV% for PLT-F over data collected across four different
Sysmex XN-10 and XN-20 analyzers, at three sites, throughout the product
dating claim, with three separately manufactured lots of XN CAL™ PF.
Open-vial stability: A 4 hour open-vial stability claim was validated at the end
of the 35-day product expiration claim on XN series (XN-10, XN-20)
analyzer. Two vials of calibrator from each reference lot were analyzed in
duplicate for three consecutive days (n=12).
Closed-vial stability: Three separately manufactured lots of XN CAL™ PF
were set up to validate closed-vial stability performance throughout the 35-
day expiration dating at refrigerated temperatures (2 - 8oC) on XN series (XN-
10, XN-20) analyzer. Data were collected according to CLSI EP5-A2
methods.
CV% value for open and closed vial XN CAL™ PF stability was within the
acceptable threshold value as shown in the table above in section M.1(a).
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Lot #	PLT-F (%CV)
1290	1.86
1318	2.59
1346	2.05
Maximum CV% Acceptance Criteria	5

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The end-user is instructed to refer to the product assay sheet accompanying the
product instructions for use.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6