
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER: k120568
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable (delete/add items as necessary) for the FreeStyle InsuLinx Blood Glucose
Monitoring System:
1. The name and 510(k) number of SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device: FreeStyle InsuLinx
Blood Glucose Monitoring System, cleared under k111874
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials. (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for: Modifications to the FreeStyle InsuLinx Blood Glucose Monitoring System
labeling to include validated cleaning and disinfection instructions for the FreeStyle Lancing Device.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.

--- Page 2 ---
2
The FreeStyle InsuLinx Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for single-patient use only.
Disinfection efficacy studies were performed on the materials comprising the meter and lancing
device by an outside commercial testing facility demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis
B virus (HBV) with the chosen disinfectant, Dispatch Hospital Cleaner Disinfectant Towels with
Bleach (EPA Reg. No: 56392-8). Robustness studies were performed by the sponsor
demonstrating that there was no change in performance or external materials for the meter and
lancing device after 522 cleanings and 522 disinfection steps with Dispatch Hospital Cleaner
Disinfectant Towels. The robustness studies were designed to simulate cleaning and disinfection
once per week over 5 years. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated
cleaning and disinfection procedures.