
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k120247
B. Purpose for Submission:
New accessory to a glucose device
C. Measurand:
D-glucose values
D. Type of Test:
Glucose tolerance beverage
E. Applicant:
Vineland Syrup, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
EasyDeX
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR ยง 862.1345; Glucose test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MRV; Drink, Glucose Tolerance
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
EasyDex is a flavored non-carbonated beverage containing specific quantities of
dextrose (D-glucose). The manufactured beverages contain three (3) different
quantities of glucose: 50, 75, and 100 grams quantities per 10 oz. bottle. This
product is used in the administration of an in Vitro Diagnostic Glucose Tolerance
Test in the evaluation of diabetes mellitus and other related disease conditions.
This product is for oral consumption only.
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The EasyDeX glucose tolerance beverage is a water-based flavored beverage
containing specific quantities of dextrose (d-glucose). The product is manufactured in
2 flavors (fruit punch and orange) and 3 concentrations per flavor (50, 75, 100
grams).
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Glucose Tolerance Beverage
2. Predicate K number(s):
k032753
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Candidate Device Predicate Device
Vineland Syrup PERK Scientific
EasyDeX Glucose Tolerance Glucose Tolerance Beverage
Beverage (k032753)
Intended use Same The Glucose Tolerance Beverage is
intended to be used as an accessory
to an oral glucose tolerance test in
the evaluation of diabetes mellitus
and related disease conditions.
Sugar Composition Same Dextrose
Concentrations Same 50, 75, 100 grams
Bottle Same Plastic
Cap Same Tamper Evident Band
Flavors Same Orange, Fruit Punch
Carbonation Same No
Shelf Life Same 18 months
Bottle Size Same 10 ounces
Lot Number/Expiration Printed on Container Printed on Bottle Neck
Date
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None
L. Test Principle:
This product is used in the administration of the oral glucose tolerance test. Patients
are instructed not to eat or drink anything after midnight before the test. After the
glucose load is consumed, blood samples are drawn for glucose measurements at
specific time intervals to determine potential defects in insulin secretion and/or
insulin action. Fifty gram glucose loads are typically administered for the initial
screening of gestational diabetes. Seventy-five gram glucose loads are typically
administered for the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. One hundred gram glucose loads
are typically administered for the diagnosis of gestational diabetes.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
				Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
				Vineland Syrup			PERK Scientific	
								
				EasyDeX Glucose Tolerance			Glucose Tolerance Beverage	
				Beverage			(k032753)	
Intended use			Same			The Glucose Tolerance Beverage is
intended to be used as an accessory
to an oral glucose tolerance test in
the evaluation of diabetes mellitus
and related disease conditions.		
Sugar Composition			Same			Dextrose		
Concentrations			Same			50, 75, 100 grams		
Bottle			Same			Plastic		
Cap			Same			Tamper Evident Band		
Flavors			Same			Orange, Fruit Punch		
Carbonation			Same			No		
Shelf Life			Same			18 months		
Bottle Size			Same			10 ounces		
Lot Number/Expiration
Date			Printed on Container			Printed on Bottle Neck		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
Not applicable
Stability:
As part of the shelf life evaluation studies, stability studies included sugar
composition and microbiological (yeast and molds) testing at various intervals
on all 6 products (flavors/concentrations).
Stability study protocols and acceptance criteria were reviewed and found
acceptable. Real time stability studies are ongoing.
Expected Values:
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4

--- Page 5 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5