
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k120014
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new device
C. Measurand:
PT, APTT, Fibrinogen, TT, and AT
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Material, Assayed
E. Applicant:
Diagnostica Stago, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
STA® - Coag Control (N + ABN) PLUS
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.5425, Multipurpose system for in vitro coagulation studies
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
GGN, Plasma, Coagulation Control
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The STA® - Coag Control (N +ABN) PLUS is a kit containing assayed normal and
abnormal plasmas intended for the quality control of the following quantitative tests on
STA-R® and STA Compact® analyzers: prothrombin time (PT), activated partial
thromboplastin time (APTT), fibrinogen, thrombin time (TT), and antithrombin (AT).
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
STA-R® and STA Compact® analyzers
I. Device Description:
The STA® - Coag Control (N + ABN) PLUS kit is a set of two control levels. Each kit
provides:
· 12 x 2-mL vials of Reagent 1 (STA® - Coag Control N PLUS), citrated normal
human plasma, lyophilized.
· 12 x 2-mL vials of Reagent 2 (STA® - Coag Control ABN PLUS), citrated abnormal
human plasma, lyophilized.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
STA® - System Control N + P
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k943518
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device: Predicate:
STA® - Coag Control STA® - System Control N + P
(N + ABN) PLUS
Intended Use For the quality control of the Same, except:
following coagulation assays: - additional analytes claimed
prothrombin time (PT), activated for the intended use in the
partial thromboplastin time (APTT), normal and abnormal ranges
fibrinogen, thrombin time (TT) and
- thrombin time determined in
antithrombin (AT) in the normal and
the normal range only.
abnormal ranges.
Number of levels per set 2 (one normal and one abnormal) Same
Matrix Citrated Human plasma Same
Form Lyophilized Same
Reagent preparation Reconstitution with distilled water Same
Analyzers STA-R® and STA Compact® Same in addition to STA
Satellite®
Shelf-life 24 months at 2-8°C in intact vials Same
Differences
Item Device: Predicate:
STA® - Coag Control STA® - System Control N + P
(N + ABN) PLUS
Reconstituted reagent 24 hours on-board analyzers 8 hours on-board analyzers
stability
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP5-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods;
Approved Guideline-Second Edition
CLSI EP25-A, Evaluation of Stability of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents; Approved Guideline-
First Edition
L. Test Principle:
STA® - Coag Control (N + ABN) PLUS are used as controls for clotting assays (PT, APTT,
fibrinogen, and TT) and chromogenic assays (AT) performed on STA-R® and STA
Compact® analyzers. These analyzers utilize the chronometric principle (viscosity based
detection system) for clotting assays while the chromogenic assays are based on the
photometric method (measurement of absorbance of monochromatic light).
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device:			Predicate:	
				STA® - Coag Control			STA® - System Control N + P	
				(N + ABN) PLUS				
Intended Use			For the quality control of the
following coagulation assays:
prothrombin time (PT), activated
partial thromboplastin time (APTT),
fibrinogen, thrombin time (TT) and
antithrombin (AT) in the normal and
abnormal ranges.			Same, except:
- additional analytes claimed
for the intended use in the
normal and abnormal ranges
- thrombin time determined in
the normal range only.		
Number of levels per set			2 (one normal and one abnormal)			Same		
Matrix			Citrated Human plasma			Same		
Form			Lyophilized			Same		
Reagent preparation			Reconstitution with distilled water			Same		
Analyzers			STA-R® and STA Compact®			Same in addition to STA
Satellite®		
Shelf-life			24 months at 2-8°C in intact vials			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device:			Predicate:	
				STA® - Coag Control			STA® - System Control N + P	
				(N + ABN) PLUS				
Reconstituted reagent
stability			24 hours on-board analyzers			8 hours on-board analyzers		

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision studies were carried out according to the CLSI document EP5-A2. Three
lots of STA® - Coag Control (N + ABN) PLUS and one lot of assay reagents were
analyzed in duplicate, two runs per day for 20 operating days at an internal site and
two external sites. Each control level was tested as an unknown sample and assayed
on a STA-R® analyzer for: PT (STA® - Neoplastine® CI and STA® - Neoplastine® CI
Plus), APTT (STA® - PTT A, STA® - C.K. Prest® and STA® - Cephascreen®),
fibrinogen (STA® - Fibrinogen), TT (STA® -Thrombin), and AT (STA® - Stachrom®
AT III).
In addition, each control level was tested as an unknown sample and assayed on a
STA Compact® analyzer at the internal site using the same assay reagents as above.
For each site, the coefficient of variation (CV) and standard deviation (SD) for
within-run, between-run, within-day, between-day, within-laboratory, between-lot,
between-site (laboratory) and total precision for each lot and control level were
estimated.
For pooled data on the STA-R® analyzer from the three sites, the CV and SD for
within-run, between-run, between-lot, between-site and total precision were estimated
by using a mixed model fitted to the pooled data (i.e., a fully nested ANOVA model).
All results met the acceptance criteria.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment:
Prothrombin time (PT): For each control level, the target clotting time corresponds to
the mean of at least three determinations, each using at least 3 different lots of STA® -
Neoplastine® CI or STA® - Neoplastine® CI Plus. The determinations are carried out
on a minimum of 2 analyzers (STA-R® and STA Compact®) and performed by a
minimum of 2 laboratory technicians. The control ranges for PT (values in sec and
%) are then assigned by calculating the lower and upper limits.
Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT): For each control level, the target
clotting time corresponds to the mean of at least three determinations, each using at
least 3 different lots of STA® - PTT A, STA® - C.K. Prest® and 5 different lots of
4

--- Page 5 ---
STA® - Cephascreen®. The determinations are carried out on a minimum of 2
analyzers (STA-R® and STA Compact®) and by a minimum of 2 laboratory
technicians. The control ranges for APTT (sec) are then assigned by calculating the
lower and upper limits.
Fibrinogen Assay: For each control level, the target fibrinogen level corresponds to
the mean of at least four determinations using a total of at least 2 different lots of
STA® - Fibrinogen and STA® - Fib. The determinations are carried out on a minimum
of 2 analyzers (STA-R® and STA Compact®) and by a minimum of 2 laboratory
technicians. The control ranges for fibrinogen (g/L) are then assigned by calculating
the lower and upper limits.
Thrombin Time (TT): For each control level, the target clotting time corresponds to
the mean of at least three determinations, each using at least 3 different lots of STA® -
Thrombin. The determinations are carried out on a minimum of 2 analyzers (STA-R®
and STA Compact®) and by a minimum of 2 laboratory technicians. The control
ranges for TT (sec) are then assigned by calculating the lower and upper limits.
Antithrombin Assay (AT): For each control level, the target antithrombin level
corresponds to the mean of at least three determinations, each made on two vials.
The determinations are carried out using a total of at least 3 different lots of STA® -
Stachrom® AT III, on a minimum of 2 analyzers (STA-R® and STA Compact®) and
by a minimum of 2 laboratory technicians. The control ranges for AT (%) are then
assigned by calculating the lower and upper limits.
Open vial stability: The 24-hour open vial stability claim was verified using one lot
of STA® - Coag Control (N + ABN) PLUS Reagents. Three vials of each control
level were reconstituted, prepared and stored onboard the STA Compact® and STA-
R® analyzers in their original vials and tested at 4, 8, 17, 24 and 25 hour time points
in parallel with freshly reconstituted reagents from the same lot that were used
immediately. At each time interval, each vial was tested in triplicate for PT (with
STA® - Neoplastine® CI and STA® Neoplastine® CI Plus), APTT (with STA® - PTT
A, STA® - C.K. Prest® and STA® - Cephascreen®), fibrinogen (with STA® -
Fibrinogen), TT (with STA® - Thrombin), and AT (with STA® - Stachrom® AT III).
The median values were compared to their established baseline range (using the
median value at zero hour as a baseline).
Results obtained were analyzed using linear regression (median results (y-axis) versus
test hour (x-axis)) with the stated allowable drift acceptance criteria. In addition, the
95% confidence interval limits were computed and plotted.
In each case, the upper or lower limit of the 95% confidence interval of the regression
line did not intersect with the acceptance criteria. The stability duration was taken as
the maximum time point tested minus one hour time.
5

--- Page 6 ---
All results met the acceptance criteria supporting an on-board stability claim of 24
hours.
Closed vial stability: A 24-month closed vial stability (shelf-life) claim was verified
using three lots of STA® - Coag Control N PLUS and STA® - Coag Control ABN
PLUS reagents as patient samples. Each control reagent was tested on the STA-R®
analyzer to perform PT (with STA® - Neoplastine® CI and STA® - Neoplastine® CI
Plus), APTT (with STA® - PTT A, STA® - C.K. Prest® and STA® - Cephascreen®),
fibrinogen (with STA® - Fibrinogen), TT (with STA® - Thrombin), and AT (with
STA® - Stachrom® AT III) assays.
Control reagents stored at 2-8°C in their original vials were tested in 10 replicates at
the following time points: T0, T0 + 6 months, T0 + 12 months, T0 + 18 months, T0 +
24 months and T0 + 25 months. All test results obtained were compared to the
median value at T0 as a baseline.
The results met pre-determined acceptance criteria (i.e. deviation in absolute value
from the median value at T0) and support the 24-month shelf-life claim.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
6

--- Page 7 ---
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The end-user is instructed to refer to the product assay sheet accompanying the product
information sheet.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7