
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k120489
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modified device
C. Measurand:
Gene expression profile for 15 common tumor types
D. Type of Test:
Gene expression microarray
E. Applicant:
Pathwork Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test Kit – FFPE (Origin Test Kit-FFPE)
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.3100 Amphetamine Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
OIW, Software, similarity score algorithm, tissue of origin for malignant tumor types
4. Panel:
Toxicology (91)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is an in vitro diagnostic intended to measure the
degree of similarity between the RNA expression patterns in a patient’s formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor and the RNA expression patterns in a database of
fifteen tumor types (poorly differentiated, undifferentiated and metastatic cases) that were
diagnosed according to then current clinical and pathological practice. This test should be
evaluated by a qualified physician in the context of the patient’s clinical history and other
diagnostic test results.
Limitations: The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is not intended to establish the origin
of tumors (e.g. cancer of unknown primary) that cannot be diagnosed according to
current clinical and pathological practice. It is not intended to subclassify or modify the
classification of tumors that can be diagnosed by current clinical and pathological
practice, nor to predict disease course or survival or treatment efficacy, nor to distinguish
primary from metastatic tumor. Tumor types not in the Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test
database may have RNA expression patterns that are similar to patterns in the database.
Therefore, results cannot be used to distinguish tumor types in the database from tumor
types not in the database.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as intended use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Affymetrix GeneChip® Microarray Instrumentation System (k080995)
I. Device Description:
The modified and the predicate device (k092967) are both in vitro diagnostic product
consisting of a reagent kit and instructions, plus a microchip and software, for the
comparison of the RNA expression pattern of a patient’s tumor sample to a database of
expression patterns of 15 known tumor tissues. Equipment required but not provided are an
Affymetrix GeneChip Fluidics Station FS450Dx and an Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner
GCS3000Dx, attached to an Affymetrix Workstation with GeneChip Operating System
(GCOS). Additional equipment required but not provided is commonly available laboratory
equipment.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s) and 510(k) number(s) :
2

--- Page 3 ---
Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test Kit – FFPE, k092967
2. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is an
in vitro diagnostic intended to measure the
degree of similarity between the RNA
expression patterns in a patient’s formalin-
fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor and
the RNA expression patterns in a database
Intended Use of fifteen tumor types (poorly differentiated, Same
undifferentiated and metastatic cases) that
were diagnosed according to then current
clinical and pathological practice. This test
should be evaluated by a qualified physician
in the context of the patient’s clinical
history and other diagnostic test results.
The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is not
intended to establish the origin of tumors
(e.g. cancer of unknown primary) that
cannot be diagnosed according to current
clinical and pathological practice. It is not
intended to subclassify or modify the
classification of tumors that can be
diagnosed by current clinical and
Limitations in the pathological practice, nor to predict disease
Same
Intended Use course or survival or treatment efficacy, nor
to distinguish primary from metastatic
tumor. Tumor types not in the Pathwork®
Tissue of Origin Test database may have
RNA expression patterns that are similar to
patterns in the database. Therefore, results
cannot be used to distinguish tumor types in
the database from tumor types not in the
database.
Comparison of the RNA expression
pattern of a patient’s tumor sample to a
database of expression patterns of 15
Technology known tumor tissues. Algorithm as Same
described in k092967 and report graphic
presentation of similarity scores for 15
tissues of origin
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is an
in vitro diagnostic intended to measure the
degree of similarity between the RNA
expression patterns in a patient’s formalin-
fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor and
the RNA expression patterns in a database
of fifteen tumor types (poorly differentiated,
undifferentiated and metastatic cases) that
were diagnosed according to then current
clinical and pathological practice. This test
should be evaluated by a qualified physician
in the context of the patient’s clinical
history and other diagnostic test results.			Same		
Limitations in the
Intended Use			The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is not
intended to establish the origin of tumors
(e.g. cancer of unknown primary) that
cannot be diagnosed according to current
clinical and pathological practice. It is not
intended to subclassify or modify the
classification of tumors that can be
diagnosed by current clinical and
pathological practice, nor to predict disease
course or survival or treatment efficacy, nor
to distinguish primary from metastatic
tumor. Tumor types not in the Pathwork®
Tissue of Origin Test database may have
RNA expression patterns that are similar to
patterns in the database. Therefore, results
cannot be used to distinguish tumor types in
the database from tumor types not in the
database.			Same		
Technology			Comparison of the RNA expression
pattern of a patient’s tumor sample to a
database of expression patterns of 15
known tumor tissues. Algorithm as
described in k092967 and report graphic
presentation of similarity scores for 15
tissues of origin			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Purification of
biotinylated Ethanol No Ethanol added
cDNA
A minimum of 30 ng total RNA at a
concentration of 10 ng/μl (±0.5 ng/μl) is
required. If the specimen has an area
Minimum RNA <25mm2, commonly employed techniques
150 ng
Required for manual dissection under a microscope
need to be followed to obtain at least 60%
tumor and a recommended tissue volume of
at least 0.05mm3.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
The test uses curls from a formaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) block. The Origin Test
Kit-FFPE test can be performed on a single 10-μm-thick curl cut from the block, or on up to five
curls, to obtain tissue area of at least 25 mm2. The specimen must contain at least 60% viable
tumor. It can also use specimens that are manually dissected under a microscope (up to 4 manual
dissected specimens). The manually dissected specimen must contain at least 60% viable tumor
with a recommended tissue volume of at least 0.05mm3. The tissue must be de-paraffinized and
total RNA must be isolated per the Pathwork Specimen Processing Guide (SPG). Thirty (30)
nanograms of total RNA at a concentration of 10 ng/μl (±0.5 ng/μl) are required to perform the
test.
The procedural steps include total RNA extraction, reverse transcription, cDNA purification,
microarray gene expression analyses, and determination of similarity of 15 tissues of origin and
generation of the report. Each specimen analyzed will produce 15 Similarity Scores, one for each
tissue on the panel. Each Similarity Score is a measure of the similarity of the gene expression
profile of the specimen to the profile of the indicated tissue, ranging from 0 (very low similarity)
to 100 (very high similarity). Similarity Scores for all 15 tissues sum to 100. For each Origin Test
Kit–FFPE test performed, a test report is generated that quantifies the similarity of the RNA
expression pattern found in a tumor specimen (poorly or un-differentiated primary tumors, as
well as metastatic tumors) to expression patterns found in tumor specimens from 15 known
tissues of origin and provided back to the laboratory over a secure internet connection in pdf
format.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences		
Item	Device	Predicate
Purification of
biotinylated
cDNA	Ethanol	No Ethanol added
Minimum RNA
Required	A minimum of 30 ng total RNA at a
concentration of 10 ng/μl (±0.5 ng/μl) is
required. If the specimen has an area
<25mm2, commonly employed techniques
for manual dissection under a microscope
need to be followed to obtain at least 60%
tumor and a recommended tissue volume of
at least 0.05mm3.	150 ng

--- Page 5 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Established under k092967
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Established under k092967
d. Detection limit:
Established under k092967
e. Analytical specificity:
Established under K092967
f. Assay cut-off:
Established under k092967
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Forty-five FFPE specimens representing 15 tumor types with three samples per tumor
type were used for the method comparison study. They were selected from reserves of
specimens used in the analytical studies of the predicate device k092967. Multiple
areas (2 - 10 mm2) were manually dissected under a microscope from 5-mm sections
of each tumor specimen. RNA was extracted from each manually dissected sample.
The amount of RNA was determined spectroscopically. If a single manually dissected
sample did not provide between 30 and 150 ng at a concentration of at least 9.5 ng/μL
required for the assay, multiple extractions were combined. These total RNA samples
were tested with the modified assay and results were compared to those obtained with
the larger amounts of total RNA for the same specimens which have available
diagnosis.
Among 45 FFPE specimens, two specimens were excluded from the comparison. One
failed the overall quality control criteria (signal threshold of 10); the other was
erroneously chosen and no data from a paired specimen in the ≥150 ng RNA category
was available. Therefore, comparison was based on 43 tumors. The concordance
between ≥150 ng RNA specimens processed without ethanol, and 30-150 ng of RNA
5

--- Page 6 ---
extracted and processed with ethanol was 97.7% (42/43) and the 95% confidence
interval was 87.7-99.9%. One sample tested using modified device (30-150 ng of
RNA and processed with ethanol) had discordant result with the available diagnosis.
Concordance Discordance
Comparison
Percent Percent
Ratio Ratio
[95% CI] [95% CI]
≥ 150 ng and ethanol absent
97.7% 2.3%
vs. 42/43 1/43
[87.7, 99.9] [0.1, 12.3]
30 to 150 ng and ethanol present
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Established under k092967
b. Clinical specificity:
Established under k092967
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
None
4. Clinical cut-off:
Established under k092967
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
														
				Concordance						Discordance				
	Comparison													
							Percent						Percent	
				Ratio						Ratio				
							[95% CI]						[95% CI]	
														
≥ 150 ng and ethanol absent
vs.
30 to 150 ng and ethanol present			42/43			97.7%
[87.7, 99.9]			1/43			2.3%
[0.1, 12.3]		