
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K121190
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
k110894, Bayer CONTOUR NEXT Link Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
· removal of the wireless transmission capability
· Resized meter case and LCD display
· Change from four to three user meter operation buttons
· Change in button materials
· Addition of a 90-day selection to display test results and trends
· Change in memory capacity from 1000 to 800 test results
· Connectivity to a personal computer via a micro-USB port
· Change in power supply to two replaceable 3 volt lithium button batteries
· To make the test strip port not illuminated.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including:
- labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, user interface, detection technologies, reagents,
automatic calibration, quality control, and the same blood glucose measurement algorithm.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis. FMEA
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.

--- Page 2 ---
2
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The device system is intended for single-patient use only. Disinfection efficacy studies were performed
on the materials comprising the meter and lancing device by an outside commercial testing
demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the chosen disinfectant, Clorox
Germicidal Wipes (EPA Registration # 67619-12). Robustness studies were also performed by the
sponsor demonstrating that there was no change in performance or external materials of the meter and
lancing device after 260 cleanings and 260 disinfection cycles (total of 520 wipes). The robustness
studies were designed to simulate 5 years of single-patient use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate
instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.