
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K121565
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for a new device
C. Measurand:
Cryptosporidum parvum antigen
D. Type of Test:
Lateral flow immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Trinity Biotech
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.3220 Entamoeba histolytica serological reagents
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
MHJ – Cryptosporidium spp.
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium is a single use rapid immunoassay
for the qualitative detection of Cryptosporidium parvum (C. parvum) antigens in
human stool specimens. This test is intended for use with patients with
gastrointestinal symptoms as an aid in the diagnosis of suspected
Cryptosporidium gastrointestinal infections. As with other Cryptosporidium tests,
results should be considered in conjunction with the clinical evaluation and
medical history. For In Vitro Diagnostic use.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium is a single use rapid immunoassay
for the qualitative detection of Cryptosporidium parvum (C. parvum) antigens in
human stool specimens. This test is intended for use with patients with
gastrointestinal symptoms as an aid in the diagnosis of suspected
Cryptosporidium gastrointestinal infections. As with other Cryptosporidium tests,
results should be considered in conjunction with the clinical evaluation and
medical history. For In Vitro Diagnostic use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The Trinity Biotech Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium test strip (5mm x 60mm) combines
a nitrocellulose membrane with designated fiber pads (conjugate, sample and
absorbent). The test strip is placed into a plastic housing and is sealed constituting the
Test Device. The test strip consists of A) Mouse anti-Cryptosporidium parvum
antibody coated onto the Test Line region, B) Goat anti-mouse IgG antibody coated
onto the Control Line region, C) Mouse anti- Cryptosporidium parvum antibodies and
mouse IgG antibodies conjugated to red latex particles and dried onto the inert glass
fiber conjugate pad which is positioned on the test strip below the nitrocellulose zone.
The housing contains a window where the diluted stool sample is added (Sample
Well) and a window above where the results are read in 15 minutes.
2

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Remel Xpect® Cryptosporidium Lateral Flow Assay
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K031965
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Trinity Biotech Remel Xpect®
Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium Lateral
Cryptosporidium Flow Assay
Intended use Detection of Detection of
Cryptosporidium parvum Cryptosporidium
antigens in human stool antigens in preserved and
specimens unpreserved fecal
specimens
Technology Qualitative Qualitative
immunochromatographic immunochromatographic
assay assay
Specimen types Human stool samples, Human stool samples,
unpreserved: fresh/frozen, unpreserved and
preserved: 10% formalin, preserved: 10% formalin,
SAF, Cary-Blair, or C&S SAF, or Cary-Blair
Transport Medium Transport Medium
Test time 15 minutes 15 minutes
Reading method Visual Visual
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Trinity Biotech Remel XpectTM
Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium Lateral
Cryptosporidium Flow Assay
Capture antibodies on Mouse anti- Rabbit anti-
membrane Cryptosporidium parvum Cryptosporidium “Test
“Test Line”, Goat anti- Line”, Goat anti-mouse
mouse IgG “Control IgG “Control Line”
Line”
Conjugate antibodies Mouse anti- Mouse monoclonal anti-
Cryptosporidium parvum, Cryptosporidium
Mouse IgG
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Trinity Biotech
Uni-GoldTM
Cryptosporidium			Remel Xpect®
Cryptosporidium Lateral
Flow Assay		
Intended use			Detection of
Cryptosporidium parvum
antigens in human stool
specimens			Detection of
Cryptosporidium
antigens in preserved and
unpreserved fecal
specimens		
Technology			Qualitative
immunochromatographic
assay			Qualitative
immunochromatographic
assay		
Specimen types			Human stool samples,
unpreserved: fresh/frozen,
preserved: 10% formalin,
SAF, Cary-Blair, or C&S
Transport Medium			Human stool samples,
unpreserved and
preserved: 10% formalin,
SAF, or Cary-Blair
Transport Medium		
Test time			15 minutes			15 minutes		
Reading method			Visual			Visual		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Trinity Biotech
Uni-GoldTM
Cryptosporidium			Remel XpectTM
Cryptosporidium Lateral
Flow Assay		
Capture antibodies on
membrane			Mouse anti-
Cryptosporidium parvum
“Test Line”, Goat anti-
mouse IgG “Control
Line”			Rabbit anti-
Cryptosporidium “Test
Line”, Goat anti-mouse
IgG “Control Line”		
Conjugate antibodies			Mouse anti-
Cryptosporidium parvum,
Mouse IgG			Mouse monoclonal anti-
Cryptosporidium		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Conjugate material Red latex conjugated Red and blue polystyrene
antibodies dried on a microparticles coated
conjugate pad with antibodies and
diluted in buffer
Sample volume 100 µL 2 drops ~ 40-60 µL
Membrane material Nitrocellulose Mylar-backed
nitrocellulose
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI M28-A2 Procedures for the Recovery and Identification of Parasites from the
Intestinal Tract
CLSI EP12-A2 User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance (In
Vitro Diagnostics)
CLSI EP17-A Protocols for Determination of Limits of Detection and Limits of
Quantitation
L. Test Principle:
A buffered solution is added to a dilution tube followed by the addition of two drops
of the stool specimen via a disposable pipette. This mixture is then dispensed in total
into the sample well of the lateral flow cartridge device with a dropper pipette. The
mixture migrates through a pad containing red latex microspheres that have been
coated with an antibody specific for the Cryptosporidium antigen.
When Cryptosporidium antigens are present in the sample they combine with the
antibody/red latex conjugate. As this complex migrates it binds to the antibodies in
the test region of the device forming a visible pink/red band.
Excess red latex conjugate forms a second pink/red band in the control region of the
device. The control line should always appear as a visible pink/red band in the control
region of the device to indicate that the test device is functioning correctly.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was assessed at three sites using a blind coded sample panel
with varying amounts of Cryptosporidium oocysts spiked into negative human
stool matrix. The panel consisted of four low positive samples, four
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Conjugate material			Red latex conjugated
antibodies dried on a
conjugate pad			Red and blue polystyrene
microparticles coated
with antibodies and
diluted in buffer		
Sample volume			100 µL			2 drops ~ 40-60 µL		
Membrane material			Nitrocellulose			Mylar-backed
nitrocellulose		

--- Page 5 ---
moderately positive samples, and four negative samples. The panels were
tested in two runs at each site by two operators each day for five days. Each
site ran positive and negative controls for each day of testing. Reproducibility
was 100%. Additionally, lot-to-lot repeatability and between-user
repeatability were assessed internally with panels of positive and negative
clinical samples. Repeatability was 100%. The Reproducibility and
Repeatability study results are acceptable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Controls:
Good Laboratory Practice necessitates the use of control specimens to ensure
proper device performance at least once daily. Uni-Gold™ Cryptosporidium
Controls are available separately for use only with Uni-Gold™
Cryptosporidium. These controls are used to verify correct device
performance, operator procedure and result interpretation. The positive control
will produce a reactive test result and the negative control will produce a non-
reactive test result as described in the package insert.
It is recommended that positive and negative controls are run
• By all new operators performing testing on patient specimens
• With each new kit lot and whenever a new shipment of test kits is received
• At periodic intervals as specified in the laboratory Quality Assurance
program
Uni-Gold™ Cryptosporidium Controls must give the expected reactive or
non-reactive results; otherwise the test results are not valid and must be
repeated.
Sample stability:
Cryptosporidium oocysts were spiked into human stool samples in the
following fixative and transport medium types: 10% formalin, SAF, Cary
Blair, C&S, or fresh (unpreserved). Negative samples were also prepared in
each medium type. The samples were stored under different temperature
conditions and tested at various times during storage. All samples produced
the expected results. The data supports the following sample storage
parameters:
Fresh stool 48 hours at 2-8°C
Frozen Stool 2 months at -20°C
Cary Blair or C&S transport media 7 days at 2-8°C
Cary Blair or C&S transport media 2 months at -20°C
5

--- Page 6 ---
10% formalin or SAF fixed stool 2 months at 2-30°C
A multiple freeze/thaw study was also conducted with negative and positive
spiked fresh, C&S, and Cary Blair stool samples. All samples produced the
expected results in the study. Multiple freeze/thaw cycles should be avoided.
High-dose hook effect:
High levels of Cryptosporidium oocysts were spiked into negative human
stool matrix, serially diluted, and then tested. High oocyst concentrations
produced the expected positive results in the Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium and
did not produce a high-dose hook effect.
d. Detection limit:
The limit of detection was determined by spiking purified Cryptosporidium
oocysts quantified by DFA microscopy into negative human stool samples.
The samples were serially diluted and three replicates from each dilution were
tested with the Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium to determine the concentration that
produced a positive result 95% of the time. A limit of detection concentration
of 9920 oocysts/mL was confirmed by testing an additional 20 replicates with
the Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross reactivity:
No cross reactivity was observed with samples containing the following
microorganisms:
Adenovirus serotype 3 Coronavirus OC43 Iodamoeba butschlii
Adenovirus serotype 5 Coxsackievirus Isospora sp.
Adenovirus serotype 7 Cyclspora cayetanensis Klebsiella pneumoniae
Adenovirus serotype 41 Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Microsporidia
Adenovirus serotype 40 Dientamoeba fragilis Salmonella typhimurium
Aeromonas hydrophila Diphyllobothrium latum Shigella dysenteriae
Ascaris lumbricoides Echovirus 20 Shigella flexneri
Bacteroides fragilis Endolimax nana Shigella sonnei
Bacillus cereus Entamoeba coli Staphylococcus aureus
Bacillus subtilis Entamoeba hartmanni S. aureus (Cowan's)
Blastocystis hominis Entamoeba histolytica Staphylococcus epidermidis
Campylobacter coli Enterobius vermincularis Strongyloides stercoralis
Campylobacter fetus Enterococcus faecalis Taenia sp.
Campylobacter jejuni Escherichia coli Trichurius trichiura
Candida albicans Escherichia coli 0157H7 Vibrio parahaemolyticus
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Adenovirus serotype 3	Coronavirus OC43	Iodamoeba butschlii
Adenovirus serotype 5	Coxsackievirus	Isospora sp.
Adenovirus serotype 7	Cyclspora cayetanensis	Klebsiella pneumoniae
Adenovirus serotype 41	Cytomegalovirus (CMV)	Microsporidia
Adenovirus serotype 40	Dientamoeba fragilis	Salmonella typhimurium
Aeromonas hydrophila	Diphyllobothrium latum	Shigella dysenteriae
Ascaris lumbricoides	Echovirus 20	Shigella flexneri
Bacteroides fragilis	Endolimax nana	Shigella sonnei
Bacillus cereus	Entamoeba coli	Staphylococcus aureus
Bacillus subtilis	Entamoeba hartmanni	S. aureus (Cowan's)
Blastocystis hominis	Entamoeba histolytica	Staphylococcus epidermidis
Campylobacter coli	Enterobius vermincularis	Strongyloides stercoralis
Campylobacter fetus	Enterococcus faecalis	Taenia sp.
Campylobacter jejuni	Escherichia coli	Trichurius trichiura
Candida albicans	Escherichia coli 0157H7	Vibrio parahaemolyticus

--- Page 7 ---
Chilomastix mesnili Giardia lamblia Yersinia enterocolitica
Clostridium difficile Hookworm
C. biffermentans Hymenolepis nana
Cross-reactivity to E. dispar was not evaluated.
Cross-reactivity study results are acceptable.
Interference study:
The following substances did not interfere with positive or negative results
when tested in spiked human stool samples at the following concentrations:
Human blood (20% v/v), Mucin (3.5% w/v), Stool fat (Triglycerides
0.14mg/ml or Stearic Acid 20% v/v), Pepto-Bismol (Bismuth) (20% v/v),
Imodium A-D (Loperamide HCl) (20% v/v), Kaopectate (Attapugite) (20%
v/v), Vancomycin (0.6mg/ml), K-Y jelly (0.289mg/ml), Vasoline
(0.22mg/ml), Condom lubricant (1.716mg/ml), Maalox (magnesium
hydroxide, calcium carbonate) (20% v/v), Tagamet (Cimetidine) (2.0x10-2
mg/ml), Pepsid (Famotidine) (6.0x10-4 mg/ml), Zantac (Ranitidine) (6.0x10-3
mg/ml), Prilosec (Omeprazole) (6.0x10-3 mg/ml), Nitrazoxanide (6.96x10-3
mg/ml), Atovaquone (0.031mg/ml), Azithromycin (1.2x10-2 mg/ml),
Metronidazole (0.12mg/ml), Paromomycin (0.42mg/ml), Trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole (TRM 0.04mg/ml & Sulf 0.4mg/ml).
Interference study results are acceptable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
The Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium was compared to a commercially available
lateral flow test on 299 retrospective stool samples in the following stool
matrix types: unpreserved frozen (37), Cary Blair (4), SAF (159), and
formalin (99). The percent agreement of Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium versus
the comparator device was as follows:
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Clostridium difficile	Hookworm	
C. biffermentans	Hymenolepis nana	

--- Page 8 ---
Comparator
Site 1 Device
+ - % Agreement
Uni-Gold™
+ 24 1 100% Pos Agr
Cryptosporidium
- 0 52 98.1% Neg Agr
Comparator
Site 2 Device
+ - % Agreement
Uni-Gold™
+ 56 0 100% Pos Agr
Cryptosporidium
- 0 55 100% Neg Agr
Comparator
Site 3 Device
+ - % Agreement
Uni-Gold™
+ 27 51* 96.4% Pos Agr
Cryptosporidium
- 1** 32 38.6% Neg Agr
*At Site 3, out of 51 samples that tested positive on Uni-Gold
Cryptosporidium and negative on the comparator device, 30 samples were
positive by Modified Kinyoun Stain light microscopy and three samples were
positive for Cryptosporidium by DFA microscopy in agreement with the Uni-
Gold Cryptoporidium result.
**The one sample that tested negative on Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium and
positive on the comparator device was negative by Modified Kinyoun Stain
microscopy in agreement with the Uni-Gold Cryptoporidium result.
b. Matrix comparison:
An in-house study was conducted to evaluate test performance with negative
human stool samples and whole Cryptosporidium oocysts spiked into stool
samples in the following sample matrices: 10% formalin, SAF, Cary Blair,
C&S, and unpreserved (fresh). All samples produced the expected result with
the test device.
3. Clinical studies:
The clinical performance of the Uni-Gold Cryptosporidium was evaluated on 564
retrospective stool samples at three external laboratories and on 378 prospective
stool samples at a fourth external laboratory.
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Retrospective study:
The sensitivity and specificity of the test was compared against DFA
microscopy with retrospective samples at sites 1 and 2 as shown in the
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Site 1					Comparator			
					Device			
				+		-		% Agreement
	Uni-Gold™							
			+	24		1		100% Pos Agr
	Cryptosporidium							
			-	0		52		98.1% Neg Agr
								

[Table 2 on page 8]
Site 2					Comparator			
					Device			
				+		-		% Agreement
	Uni-Gold™							
			+	56		0		100% Pos Agr
	Cryptosporidium							
			-	0		55		100% Neg Agr
								

[Table 3 on page 8]
Site 3					Comparator			
					Device			
				+		-		% Agreement
	Uni-Gold™		+	27		51*		96.4% Pos Agr
	Cryptosporidium							
			-	1**		32		38.6% Neg Agr

--- Page 9 ---
following tables.
DFA
Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold™ + 28 0
Site 1
Cryptosporidium - 0 103
DFA
Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold™ + 49 0
Site 2
Cryptosporidium - 0 54
DFA
Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold™ + 77 0
Total
Cryptosporidium - 0 157
Sensitivity: 100% (77/77), 95% CI 94 - 100%
Specificity: 100% (157/157), 95% CI 97 - 100%
The positive samples were tested in the following stool matrix types: formalin
(47), SAF (11), unpreserved frozen (14), Cary Blair (2), and C&S (3). The
negative samples were tested in the following stool matrix types: formalin
(71), SAF (49), unpreserved frozen (23), Cary Blair (2), C&S (12).
Additional retrospective studies:
Performance of the test was compared to non-fluorescent microscopy
(staining) at two external laboratories. At site 2, 47 retrospective samples were
evaluated and demonstrated a Positive Percent Agreement (PPA) of 100%
(26/26) and a Negative Percent Agreement (NPA) of 100% (21/21) versus
Modified Acid-Fast Stain. At site 3, 281 retrospective SAF samples were
evaluated and demonstrated a PPA of 92% (55/60) and a NPA of 90%
(198/221) versus Modified Kinyoun Stain. Of the 23 negative samples (by
Modified Kinyoun Stain) that tested positive on the Uni-GoldTM
Cryptosporidium test, three of these samples subsequently tested positive for
Cryptosporidium by DFA microscopy in agreement with the Uni-GoldTM
Cryptosporidium result.
Prospective study
Test performance was compared against DFA microscopy at site 4 with 378
prospective samples in the following stool sample types: fresh (153), frozen
(45), 10% formalin (45), SAF (45), C&S (45), and Cary Blair (45). Due to
infection prevalence, no positive samples were encountered during this study.
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
					DFA		
					Microscopy		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold™		+	28		0	
	Cryptosporidium		-	0		103	

[Table 2 on page 9]
					DFA		
					Microscopy		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold™		+	49		0	
	Cryptosporidium		-	0		54	

[Table 3 on page 9]
					DFA		
					Microscopy		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold™		+	77		0	
	Cryptosporidium		-	0		157	

--- Page 10 ---
DFA
Microscopy
+ -
Uni-Gold™ + 0 0
Site 4
Cryptosporidium - 0 378
Specificity: 100% (378/378) 95% CI 99 – 100%
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M3a.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The performance of the Uni-GoldTM Cryptosporidium Test Kit was evaluated at
four external laboratories. The 940 (prospective and retrospective) samples were
collected from Hospitals throughout the US and Canada and consisted of both
male and female patients of all ages from pediatric to adult. The retrospective
study included 163 positive samples and 399 negative samples confirmed by
microscopy. The prospective study included 378 samples which were
subsequently confirmed negative by microscopy. There were no differences
observed in clinical performance between males or females, or between pediatric
or adult populations.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
					DFA		
					Microscopy		
				+		-	
	Uni-Gold™		+	0		0	
	Cryptosporidium		-	0		378	