
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER: k121492
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
Beckman Coulter Incorporation, Synchron® Systems Hemoglobin A1c Reagent (k010748)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
1. Reagent re-formulation including addition of different buffers
2. Reagent and sample volumes.
3. The measuring range was changed from 2 to 20% to 4 to 17%.
4. Report LoB and LoD values in the labeling.
5. The HbA1c- is reported in NGSP% units and mmol/mol IFCC units.
6. The stability claim for the opened Hb reagent vial changed from 60 days to 30 days when stored
at 2 to 8 ºC.
7. The stability claim for the opened calibrators changed from 90 days to 60 days when stored at -
15 to -20 ºC. The stability claim for the frozen aliquots of the calibrators to freeze/thaw cycles
changed from four cycles to one cycle.
8. Calibrator level 1 is changed from zero to non-zero low concentration level.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and performance test.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular

--- Page 2 ---
2
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
Shirin M. Marfatia 09-10-2012
(Reviewer’s Signature) (Date)
Comments
1) The submission was received on May 21, 2012, and was placed on telephone hold twice (June 08, 2012 and
August 03, 2012).
2) The sponsor provided complete response on September 07, 2012. Based on the response, I recommend a
SE determination.
3) The following information for LCP product code was found in the post-market database:
a) Two Gen Docs.
b) Seventy MDRs including 6 injury/death, 11 patient problems, 22 device problems, 14 recalls, and 3
inspections and EIRs.
c) The sponsor Beckman Coulter specifically had one class II recall.
4) The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indications/intended use for
the device is unaffected by the modifications. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modifications and the comparative information between the modified and the unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed.
"SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE" (SE) DECISION MAKING DOCUMENTATION
Yes No
1. Same Indication Statement? x If YES = Go To 3
2. Do Differences Alter The Effect Or Raise New Issues of If YES = Stop NSE
Safety Or Effectiveness?
3. Same Technological Characteristics? x If YES = Go To 5
4. Could The New Characteristics Affect Safety Or If YES = Go To 6
Effectiveness?
5. Descriptive Characteristics Precise Enough? x If NO = Go To 8
If YES = Stop SE
6. New Types Of Safety Or Effectiveness Questions? If YES = Stop NSE
7. Accepted Scientific Methods Exist? If NO = Stop NSE
8. Performance Data Available? x If NO = Request Data
9. Data Demonstrate Equivalence? x Final Decision: CS
Note: See
http://eroom.fda.gov/eRoomReq/Files/CDRH3/CDRHPremarketNotification510kProgram/0_4148/FLOWCHART%20
DECISION%20TREE%20.DOC for Flowchart to assist in decision-making process. Please complete the following
table and answer the corresponding questions. "Yes" responses to questions 2, 4, 6, and 9, and every "no" response
requires an explanation.
1. Explain how the new indication differs from the predicate device's indication:

[Table 1 on page 2]
1. Same Indication Statement?	x		If YES = Go To 3
2. Do Differences Alter The Effect Or Raise New Issues of
Safety Or Effectiveness?			If YES = Stop NSE
3. Same Technological Characteristics?	x		If YES = Go To 5
4. Could The New Characteristics Affect Safety Or
Effectiveness?			If YES = Go To 6
5. Descriptive Characteristics Precise Enough?		x	If NO = Go To 8
If YES = Stop SE
6. New Types Of Safety Or Effectiveness Questions?			If YES = Stop NSE
7. Accepted Scientific Methods Exist?			If NO = Stop NSE
8. Performance Data Available?	x		If NO = Request Data
9. Data Demonstrate Equivalence?	x		Final Decision: CS

--- Page 3 ---
3
2. Explain why there is or is not a new effect or safety or effectiveness issue:
3. Describe the new technological characteristics:
4. Explain how new characteristics could or could not affect safety or effectiveness:
5. Explain how descriptive characteristics are not precise enough:
Descriptive characteristics are not adequate to make a determination of substantial equivalence for an IVD.
Performance data must be characterized and compared to the predicate device or a reference method.
6. Explain new types of safety or effectiveness question(s) raised or why the question(s) are not new:
7. Explain why existing scientific methods can not be used:
8. Explain what performance data is needed:
9. Explain how the performance data demonstrates that the device is or is not substantially equivalent:
The performance data obtained from the verification/validation activities using pre-determined acceptance
criteria were acceptable for an in vitro diagnostic device for this intended use. In conclusion, the reviewed
information demonstrates that the device is substantially equivalent.