
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K122534
B. Purpose for Submission:
New submission for quality control material
C. Measurand:
Prostate specific antigen (PSA)
D. Type of Test:
Fluorescence immunoassay
E. Applicant:
Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
IMMULITE/IMMULITE 1000 third Generation PSA calibration Verification
Material
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660 Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I
3. Product code:
JJX Single (specified) analyte controls (assayed and unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The IMMULITE®/IMMULITE 1000 Third Generation PSA Calibration
Verification Material (CVM) is intended for monitoring system performance of
the IMMULITE Immunoassay system for the quantitative measurement of PSA
antigen.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription use only.
Page 1 of 5

--- Page 2 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
IMMULITE®/IMMULITE 1000 Systems
I. Device Description:
The Calibration Verification Material (CVM) contains one set of four vials of 4
different concentrations of PSA, 3 mL each. L3PSCVM1, without PSA, contains
processed chicken serum matrix with preservative. L3PSCVM2, L3PSCVM3 and
L3PSCVM4 contain low, intermediate and high levels of PSA respectively, in
processed chicken serum matrix with preservative.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Access Hybritech p2PSA QC
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k112603
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The IMMULITE®/IMMULITE The Access Hybritech p2PSA
1000 Third Generation PSA QC are tri-level controls
Calibration Verification Material intended for monitoring
(CVM) is intended for system performance of
monitoring system performance immunoenzymatic procedures
of the IMMULITE Immunoassay for the quantitative
system for the quantitative measurement of [-2]proPSA
measurement of PSA antigen. isoform of Prostate Specific
Antigen (PSA) using the
Access Immunoassay
Systems.
Function Quality Control material Same
Reagent form Liquid Same
Traceability Internal Reference Preparation Internal reference preparation
Stability Stable until the expiration date Stable until the expiration date
when stored frozen. when stored frozen.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Storage -20ºC -20°C or colder
Condition
Reagent Matrix Buffering salts and Processed Buffering salts and bovine
(pH-treated) Chicken Serum serum albumin
Antigen source PSA [-2]proPSA isoform of Prostate
Page 2 of 5

[Table 1 on page 2]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The IMMULITE®/IMMULITE
1000 Third Generation PSA
Calibration Verification Material
(CVM) is intended for
monitoring system performance
of the IMMULITE Immunoassay
system for the quantitative
measurement of PSA antigen.			The Access Hybritech p2PSA
QC are tri-level controls
intended for monitoring
system performance of
immunoenzymatic procedures
for the quantitative
measurement of [-2]proPSA
isoform of Prostate Specific
Antigen (PSA) using the
Access Immunoassay
Systems.		
Function			Quality Control material			Same		
Reagent form			Liquid			Same		
Traceability			Internal Reference Preparation			Internal reference preparation		
Stability			Stable until the expiration date
when stored frozen.			Stable until the expiration date
when stored frozen.		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Storage
Condition			-20ºC			-20°C or colder		
Reagent Matrix			Buffering salts and Processed
(pH-treated) Chicken Serum			Buffering salts and bovine
serum albumin		
Antigen source			PSA			[-2]proPSA isoform of Prostate		

--- Page 3 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Specific Antigen (PSA)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. CEN 13640 Stability Testing of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
2. Guidance for Industry - Abbreviated 510(k) Submissions for In Vitro Diagnostic
Calibrators
3. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control
Material
L. Test Principle:
The reagent material has no inherent test principle but is used to monitor the
performance of a fluorescence immunoassay for the quantitative measurement of PSA
in human serum.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
IMMULITE Third Generation PSA assay is traceable to an internal standard
manufactured using qualified materials and measurement procedures. The
Calibration Verification Material (CVM) is traceable to this standard.
Value assignment: The PSA concentration levels are value assigned using an
approved reference lot manufactured with qualified materials and
measurement procedures. The reagent PSA concentrations were tested using a
total of 27 replicates per level; 9 runs and 3 replicates per run. 2 different kit
lots and 9 different instruments were used to gain the 27 replicates per level of
the reagent. The analyte values were calculated based on the recovered values
for each run independently. The average analyte value recovered for each PSA
concentration determined the assigned value (Target Mean) ± 2 Standard
Deviation (SD) units.
Expected Values: The expected values are provided in the
IMMULITE®/IMMULITE 1000 PSA Calibration verification Material lot-
specific value sheet. The expected assay range is 0.015 - 20 ng/mL. Each
laboratory should establish their limits for acceptability based on
methodology, clinical significance and medical decision levels of the test
analyte. The representative total precision, tabulated in the respective assay
instructions for use, may be considered as one factor when establishing local,
acceptable ranges. The values below can be considered as guidelines.
Page 3 of 5

[Table 1 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
						Specific Antigen (PSA)		

--- Page 4 ---
Stability: The calibration verification reagent is stable until the expiration date
(at least 90 days) when stored frozen at -20°C prior to opening. Discard after
use.
The stability calibrators are run in duplicate (as a minimum) and the PSA
concentration determined from reference calibrator curve. Real-time stability
studies were performed for 3 lots of calibration verification material (CVM).
The testing periods for one lot were 6 months and 12 months. The periods for
a second lot were 1 day, 15 days, 30 days, and 120 days. The testing periods
for the third lot were 1 day, 15 days, 30 days, and 90 days. The stability study
shows acceptable results up to 90 days when stored at -20°C.
Evaluation of matrix effects: To investigate potential matrix effects from using
Chicken Serum, spiking recovery of PSA was determined. A stock solution of
calibrator grade prostate specific antigen (PSA) was utilized to prepare the
concentrations of three spiking solutions. Concentrations were determined
gravimetrically, refer to Table 1.
Table 1 Spiking solution concentration values
Value of spike
solution (ng/mL)
Stock 1 10.87
Stock 2 46.25
Stock 3 89.13
Each spiking solution was spiked into an evaluation lot and patient sample (1
part spiking solution to 19 parts matrix). The spiked samples were run in a
PSA assay on one IMMULITE platform. The PSA values of the evaluation lot
were compared to the patient sample lots. Each of the samples meets the
acceptance criteria of mean recovery being within ±15% of the target and the
grand mean is within ±10% of reference. Since there were no significant
differences between the evaluation lot and patient sample lots, it was
concluded that the spiking recovery has shown no matrix effects.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
Page 4 of 5

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Value of spike
solution (ng/mL)
Stock 1	10.87
Stock 2	46.25
Stock 3	89.13

--- Page 5 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
See above target expected values for each PSA concentration.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
Page 5 of 5