
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k122821
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
CELLTRACKS® AUTOPREP® System (K110406)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
a. Modification to the pipetting probe to reduce the potential for carryover;
b. A label change to the CELLTRACKS AUTOPREP System labeling to change the caution about
carryover from circulating tumor cell (CTC) samples when containing 5,000 CTCs or greater per
7.5mL of blood..
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and performance.
Similarities:
Feature Modified Device
Intended Use No Change
Fundamental Scientific Technology No Change
Design Assay Detection No Change
Differences:
The design change includes the additional steps to extrude hone the probe ID followed by applying a
Teflon coating to both the ID and OD.
Probes fabricated using extrude honing and Teflon coating were tested to demonstrate reduced cell
carryover performance.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis)
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).

[Table 1 on page 1]
Feature	Modified Device
Intended Use	No Change
Fundamental Scientific Technology	No Change
Design Assay Detection	No Change

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.