
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COM BINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k122370
B. Purpose for Submission:
This submission is for the addition of wireless transmission capabilities with the Medtronic
MiniMed 530G Insulin pump, a component of the Medtronic MiniMed 530G System.
C. Measurand:
Glucose in fresh capillary whole blood from the finger and palm.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, Amperometric method, Glucose dehydrogenase (FAD)
E. Applicant:
Bayer HealthCare LLC, Diabetes Care
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345 Glucose Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NBW - Blood glucose test system, over the counter
LFR, Glycose Dehydrogenase, Glucose
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
(75) Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System is an over the
counter (OTC) device utilized by persons with diabetes in home settings for the
measurement of glucose in whole blood, and is for single-patient use only and should not
be shared. The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System is
indicated for use with fresh capillary whole blood samples drawn from the fingertip and
palm only. The system consists of a Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Meter
and Contour NEXT Test Strips.
Contour NEXT Test Strips are intended for self-testing by persons with diabetes for the
quantitative measurement of glucose in whole blood samples from 20 to 600 mg/dL.
The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended to be
used to transmit glucose values to Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm Insulin Pumps or
Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel Insulin Pumps or Medtronic MiniMed
Paradigm REAL-TIME Insulin Pumps or Medtronic MiniMed 530G Insulin Pumps or
Guardian REAL-TIME Monitor and facilitate transfer of information to Medtronic
MiniMed Carelink Therapy Management Software through use of radio frequency
communication.
The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System is not intended
for the diagnosis of or screening for diabetes mellitus and is not intended for use on
neonates.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For over-the-counter use and for prescription use
For single-patient use only
For use with fresh capillary whole blood samples drawn from the fingertip and palm only
Not for neonatal use, not for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus.
2

--- Page 3 ---
May be used to transmit glucose values to compatible Medtronic MiniMed devices and
facilitate transfer of information to Medtronic MiniMed Carelink® Therapy Management
Software through use of radio frequency communication.
Not for use on critically ill patients (e.g. those with severe hypotension or shock,
hyperglycemic-hyperosmolar state, hypoxia, severe dehydration, diabetic ketoacidosis).
4. Special instrument requirements:
Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System consists of a meter
that is the same as the Contour NEXT Link Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System
(k110894), dry reagent strips and liquid controls to be used for the measurement of glucose
in capillary whole blood by persons with diabetes. The system is automatically coded as is
the predicate device. Blood glucose results are displayed on the meter display and stored in
the meter’s memory. The system also contains radio frequency (RF) functions for the
transmitting of BGM results to compatible Medtronic Minimed insulin pumps. The RF
function can also serve as a pass through for data being transmitted from Medtronic Minimed
insulin pumps to Medtronic’s Minimed PC based data management software.
The Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System consists of the
following components:
· ContouR NEXT LINK blood glucose meter
· Contour NEXT blood glucose test strips
· Contour NEXT control solution – Level 1
· Contour NEXT control solution – Level 2
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k110894
3. Comparison with predicate:
Contour NEXT Link Wireless
Contour NEXT Link Wireless
Characteristic (Predicate Device
(Candidate Device)
k110894)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Characteristic	Contour NEXT Link Wireless
(Candidate Device)	Contour NEXT Link Wireless
(Predicate Device
k110894)

--- Page 4 ---
The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is an over the
counter (OTC) device utilized by
persons with diabetes in home
settings for the measurement of
glucose in whole blood, and is for
single-patient use only and should
not be shared. The Contour NEXT
LINK Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is indicated for
use with fresh capillary whole
blood samples drawn from the
Indications
fingertip and palm only. Same
for Use
Contour NEXT Test Strips are
intended for self-testing by
persons with diabetes for the
quantitative measurement of
glucose in whole blood samples
from 20 to 600 mg/dL.
The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is not intended
for the diagnosis of or screening
for diabetes mellitus and is not
intended for use on neonates.
The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
The CONTOUR® NEXT LINK
Monitoring System is intended to
Wireless Blood Glucose
be used to transmit glucose values
Monitoring System is intended to
to Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm be used to transmit glucose values
Insulin Pumps or Medtronic to Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm
MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Insulin pumps or Medtronic
Revel Insulin Pumps or Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time
Wireless MiniMed Paradigm REAL-TIME Revel Insulin Pumps or Medtronic
Communication Insulin Pumps or Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm® REAL-
MiniMed 530G Insulin Pumps or TIME Insulin Pumps or Guardian
Guardian REAL-TIME Monitor REAL-TIME Monitor and
and facilitate transfer of facilitate transfer of information to
information to Medtronic Medtronic MiniMed Carelink
MiniMed Carelink Therapy Therapy Management Software
through use of radio frequency
Management Software through use
communication.
of radio frequency
communication.
Test Strip Contour NEXT Test Strip Same
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Indications
for Use	The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is an over the
counter (OTC) device utilized by
persons with diabetes in home
settings for the measurement of
glucose in whole blood, and is for
single-patient use only and should
not be shared. The Contour NEXT
LINK Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is indicated for
use with fresh capillary whole
blood samples drawn from the
fingertip and palm only.
Contour NEXT Test Strips are
intended for self-testing by
persons with diabetes for the
quantitative measurement of
glucose in whole blood samples
from 20 to 600 mg/dL.
The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is not intended
for the diagnosis of or screening
for diabetes mellitus and is not
intended for use on neonates.	Same
Wireless
Communication	The Contour NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is intended to
be used to transmit glucose values
to Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm
Insulin Pumps or Medtronic
MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time
Revel Insulin Pumps or Medtronic
MiniMed Paradigm REAL-TIME
Insulin Pumps or Medtronic
MiniMed 530G Insulin Pumps or
Guardian REAL-TIME Monitor
and facilitate transfer of
information to Medtronic
MiniMed Carelink Therapy
Management Software through use
of radio frequency
communication.	The CONTOUR® NEXT LINK
Wireless Blood Glucose
Monitoring System is intended to
be used to transmit glucose values
to Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm
Insulin pumps or Medtronic
MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time
Revel Insulin Pumps or Medtronic
MiniMed Paradigm® REAL-
TIME Insulin Pumps or Guardian
REAL-TIME Monitor and
facilitate transfer of information to
Medtronic MiniMed Carelink
Therapy Management Software
through use of radio frequency
communication.
Test Strip	Contour NEXT Test Strip	Same

--- Page 5 ---
Algorithm Multi-pulse algorithm Same
Alphanumeric, Iconic, Native
User interface Same
Language
Number of
4 Same
buttons
Display
Graphical (OLED) Same
(technology)
Radio-
frequency Yes Same
communication
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None referenced.
L. Test Principle:
The Contour NEXT LINK wireless blood glucose test is based on measurement of electrical
current caused by the reaction of glucose with the reagents on the electrode of the strip. The
blood sample is drawn into the tip of the test strip through capillary action. Glucose in the
sample reacts with FAD glucose dehydrogenase (FAD-GDH) and potassium ferricyanide.
Electrons are generated, producing a current that is proportional to the glucose in the sample.
After the reaction time, the glucose concentration in the sample is displayed. No calculation
is required.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
The meter and test strips are identical to the predicate previously cleared in k110894.
Therefore, the performance testing from the predicate submission is applicable to the
Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Established in k110894.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Established in k110894.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Established in k110894.
d. Detection limit:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Algorithm	Multi-pulse algorithm	Same
User interface	Alphanumeric, Iconic, Native
Language	Same
Number of
buttons	4	Same
Display
(technology)	Graphical (OLED)	Same
Radio-
frequency
communication	Yes	Same

--- Page 6 ---
The measuring range of the Contour NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring
system is 20-600 mg/dL based on studies established in k110894.
e. Analytical specificity:
Established in k110894.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Established in k110894.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. Capillary whole blood is the only indicated matrix
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
User Performance Study:
Meter and test strip user performance was established in k110894. The ability of
users to interact with transmitted glucose values on the MiniMed 530G system was
approved under P120010.
Alternative Site Testing: Established in k110894.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
6

--- Page 7 ---
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected blood glucose results were cited from the literature1 and presented in the labeling as
follows:
Non diabetic plasma glucose concentrations are normally maintained within a relatively
narrow 70-110 mg/dL in the fasting state. You should consult with your healthcare provider
for expected glucose values specific to your needs.
1 Longo DL, et al.: Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine-18th edition, 2011:3003.
N. Instrument Name:
Contour NEXT Link Wireless Blood Glucose Meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
The purpose of this submission is to add the capability to transmit data to the Medtronic
MiniMed 530G Insulin Pump. This transmission has been also approved as part of
P120010. Transmissions to the Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm Insulin Pumps, Medtronic
MiniMed Paradigm REAL-Time Revel Insulin Pumps, Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm
REAL-TIME Insulin Pumps, Guardian REAL-TIME Monitor and the transfer of
information to the Medtronic MiniMed Carelink Therapy Management Software were
previously cleared in k110894 and various PMA supplements under P980022.
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types in k110894.
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied directly
to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The glucose test is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from the finger and
palm only. The whole blood sample is applied directly to the test strip by capillary action.
7

--- Page 8 ---
5. Calibration:
There is no calibration required for the Contour-Next Link blood glucose meter by the user.
The meter is automatically coded.
6. Quality Control:
Established in k110894.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
1. Flesch-Kincaid readability assessment was conducted and the results showed that the
labeling (User Guide, test strip package insert and control solution package insert) were
written at or lower than the 8th grade level.
2. Customer service is available 24 hours/day, 365 days a year. Toll free phone
number is 1-800-348-8100 for Bayer Diabetes Care customer support.
3. Temperature and humidity operating conditions were established in k110894.
4. EMC testing: No additional testing necessary for this device. EMC testing data were
reviewed as part of k110894.
5. Infection Control: Infection control was established in k110894.
6. Altitude Study: An altitude study was performed in k110894.
7. Hematocrit study: A hematocrit study was performed in k110894
8. Sample Volume Study: The minimal sample volume was established to be 0.6 μL in
k110894.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
8