
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE
DETERMINATION DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k122142
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Manufacture and Instrument Name:
Glooko, Inc.
Glooko Device System for Logbook Application & Glooko
Logbook Charts
D. Type of Test or Test Performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Glooko device system includes two major modules: Glooko Logbooks™ and
Glooko Logbook Charts™. The main function of Glooko Logbooks™ is to
extract data from FDA-cleared glucose meters. The major function of Glooko
Logbook Charts™ is to analyze and graph the data obtained from Glooko
Logbooks™ to assist people with diabetes who self-manage their Blood Glucose
(BG) readings.
The Glooko™ Logbooks
The Glooko™ Logbooks contain the following: Glooko MeterSync Cable,
Glooko IR Adapter, and Glooko Logbook app. (1) The Glooko MeterSync Cable
downloads data from compatible, FDA-cleared, commercial blood glucose
meters into an iOS (iPhone Operating System) device by connecting the two
components. One end of the Glooko MeterSync Cable plugs directly into the 30-
pin connector slot of the iOS device. The 3.5mm end of the Glooko MeterSync
Cable plugs directly into several FDA cleared, compatible meters to allow for the
transfer of data. A listing of the FDA cleared meters, compatible with this system
are identified in section H. Some meters require an additional 3.5mm to 2.5mm
adapter to allow for this connectivity, while other meters transfer data through
infrared, and thus require the use of the Glooko IR Adapter. The Glooko
MeterSync Cable is designed to attach to a variety of compatible, FDA-cleared,
commercial blood glucose meters. The users simply connect the supported meters
to their iOS device and transfers the blood glucose meter data into the Glooko
Logbook app. (2) The Glooko IR Adapter is designed to transmit data via
infrared from a variety of compatible, FDA-cleared, commercial blood glucose
meters into the Glooko Logbook app. The user connects the Glooko IR Adapter
1

--- Page 2 ---
to the 3.5mm adapter end of the Glooko MeterSync Cable to transmit data from
the compatible meters. (3) The Glooko Logbook app performs the following
functions: a) Syncs with compatible meters; b) Allows users to annotate glucose
measurements with notes; c) Provides multiple view options for the data; and d)
Shares the collected data in multiple formats to anyone the user selects. This iOS
application logs the user's blood glucose values and meal tags that are
downloaded from compatible blood glucose meters.
Glooko™ Logbook Charts
The Glooko™ Logbook Charts is a data management software tool designed to
assist people with diabetes who self-manage their Blood Glucose (BG) readings.
The Logbook Charts software is used in conjunction with the Glooko MeterSync
Cable and Logbook Application. The MeterSync Cable and Logbook
Application allow users to download BG readings from commercially available
blood glucose meters to an iOS device. The Glooko Logbook Charts software
tool enables the Glooko Logbook App users to chart and graph their BG values
from the application. Glooko Logbook Charts is a spreadsheet program
developed in Microsoft Excel and helps with quantitatively evaluating the BG
data downloaded into the Glooko Logbook Application. Users can download the
Glooko Logbook Charts sheet template from the Glooko website to generate and
display reports on average BG values and BG trends. Several statistical
parameters are calculated and the data is plotted as scatter grams relating blood
glucose by time of day and by date. Glooko Logbook Charts specifically offers
the following charts and table for view:
1) BG readings By Time of Day provides an overview of glucose readings during
the day. 2) BG readings By Date: provides an overview of glucose readings over
a specified date range. 3) BG readings Analysis By Time Of Day: provides an
overview of analyzed glucose readings during the day with high and low values,
percentiles, mean and medians, and BG readings Summary Statistics, which
provides an overview of the analyzed glucose readings in table format.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Glooko™ system is a data management software tool.
Operating System requirements for the The Glooko device system are: Windows
XP Professional, Windows server 2003, Windows Vista Professional or
Windows 7 Professional. The system requirements are as follows: (1) Microsoft
Windows personal computer, (2) CPU: 550 MHz Intel Pentium 3 or above, (3)
DRAM: 512 or above, (4) HD: 2 GB or more, (5) Internet Explorer 7.0 or above,
(6) USB 2.0 or above, (7) LCD screen with resolution of 1024x768 or above, (8)
CD-ROM drive and (9) a printer (Optional).
iOS devices with versions employed to extract data from blood glucose
(BG) meters.
2

--- Page 3 ---
iOS Device Version
iPod touch 3rd Generation and above
iPhone 3GS, 4, 45
iPad 1, 2 and 3
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes __X__ or No____.
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?
Yes __X__ or No____.
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
6. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Documentation:
Yes __X__ or No____.
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Glucose Test NBW: Blood Class II 21 CFR § Clinical
System Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over- (75)
the- Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I * 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
Module for Module for (75)
Clinical Use Clinical Use
* A premarket notification (510 (k)) is required for the Class I devices meeting
the limitations under 21CFR 862.9 (c)(5) For use in diabetes management.
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for use:
The Glooko device system for the Glooko Logbook Application and Glooko
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
	iOS Device			Version	
iPod touch 3rd Generation and above
iPhone 3GS, 4, 45
iPad 1, 2 and 3					

[Table 2 on page 3]
Device Name	Product Code	Classification	Regulation	Panel
Glucose Test
System	NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-
the- Counter	Class II	21 CFR §
862.1345	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)
Calculator/Data
Processing
Module for
Clinical Use	JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for
Clinical Use	Class I *	21 CFR §
862.2100	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)

--- Page 4 ---
Logbook Charts are data management software intended for use in home and
professional settings to aid individuals with diabetes and their health care
professionals in review, analysis and evaluation of blood glucose readings to
support an effective diabetes management program. The Glooko device system
for the Glooko Logbook Application connects to compatible FDA cleared
meters and allows users to transfer their blood glucose meter results to their
iPhone operating system platform.
The Glooko device system for the Glooko Logbook Application and Glooko
Logbook Charts are not intended to provide treatment decisions or to be used as
a substitute for professional healthcare advice.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
Glooko Logbook Charts / GlucoFacts Express Data Management
Logbook (K122142) Software (K082486)
New Device Predicate
Intended · For use in home and Same
use professional settings
· Device allows for the review,
analysis and evaluation of BG
results from a variety of FDA
cleared meters
Logbook Blood glucose readings, insulin and Same
for carbs intake
Accessory Accu-Chek Aviva, Accu-Chek Bayer’s Contour, Contour TS, Breeze, and
to Compact Plus, Accu-Chek Nano, Breeze 2 blood glucose meters.
Bayer’s Breeze 2, Bayer’s Contour
NEXT EZ, Bayer’s Contour,
Freestyle Freedom-Lite, Freestyle
Lite, One Touch Ultra 2, OneTouch
Ultra-Link and OneTouch Ultra-
Mini, Glucocard 01, Glucocard
Vital, ReliOn Confirm, ReliOn
Prime meters.
Use on PC / Mac / iOS Platforms PC
Data Mean, Median, Min, Max, Standard Mean, Min, Max, Standard deviation,
Analysis- deviation, percentiles and Total Target (%), Above Target ( %), Below
Statistics
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
				Glooko Logbook Charts /			GlucoFacts Express Data Management	
				Logbook (K122142)			Software (K082486)	
								
				New Device			Predicate	
Intended
use			· For use in home and
professional settings
· Device allows for the review,
analysis and evaluation of BG
results from a variety of FDA
cleared meters			Same		
Logbook
for			Blood glucose readings, insulin and
carbs intake			Same		
Accessory
to			Accu-Chek Aviva, Accu-Chek
Compact Plus, Accu-Chek Nano,
Bayer’s Breeze 2, Bayer’s Contour
NEXT EZ, Bayer’s Contour,
Freestyle Freedom-Lite, Freestyle
Lite, One Touch Ultra 2, OneTouch
Ultra-Link and OneTouch Ultra-
Mini, Glucocard 01, Glucocard
Vital, ReliOn Confirm, ReliOn
Prime meters.			Bayer’s Contour, Contour TS, Breeze, and
Breeze 2 blood glucose meters.		
Use on			PC / Mac / iOS Platforms			PC		
Data
Analysis-
Statistics			Mean, Median, Min, Max, Standard
deviation, percentiles and Total			Mean, Min, Max, Standard deviation,
Target (%), Above Target ( %), Below		

--- Page 5 ---
Glooko Logbook Charts / GlucoFacts Express Data Management
Logbook (K122142) Software(K082486)
New Device Predicate
Generated number of tests Target (%) and Total number of tests
Data Yes Same
Analysis-
Ability to
set target
ranges
· Glucose by time of day · Glucose trend results by day.
Data
· Glucose by date · Daily blood glucose trends.
Graphics-
· Glucose analysis by time of day · Weekly blood glucose trends.
Reports,
Charts, · Glucose summary statistics table · Summary chart
and
Graphs
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
· ISO 14971, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices.
· AAMI TIR36:2007 Validation of software for regulated processes
· EN55D24: 2003 European standard for information technology equipment-
immunity characteristics – limits and methods of measurement
· ANSIC63.42003: American national standard for methods of measurement of
radio-noise emissions from low-voltage electrical and electronic equipment in the
range of 9 khz to 40 Ghz
· EN55022:2006-A1:2007: Information Technology Equipment – Radio
Disturbance Characteristics Limits and Methods of Measurements
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance: The performance characteristics listed below as applicable,
were established in the specific glucose meter clearance under k043474, k081389,
k113137, k062347, k062058, k111268, k051839, k070850, k073416, k091102, k062195,
k073231, k061118, k073416, and k091102.
a. Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c. Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d. Carryover:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
				Glooko Logbook Charts /			GlucoFacts Express Data Management	
				Logbook (K122142)			Software(K082486)	
								
				New Device			Predicate	
Generated			number of tests			Target (%) and Total number of tests		
Data
Analysis-
Ability to
set target
ranges			Yes			Same		
Data
Graphics-
Reports,
Charts,
and
Graphs			· Glucose by time of day
· Glucose by date
· Glucose analysis by time of day
· Glucose summary statistics table			· Glucose trend results by day.
· Daily blood glucose trends.
· Weekly blood glucose trends.
· Summary chart		

--- Page 6 ---
See above statement under section J(1).
e. Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
1) The following documentation related to the software was reviewed and found to
be acceptable: level of concern (moderate), software description, device hazard
analysis, software requirements specifications, software design specification,
revision level history, unresolved anomalies, software development environment
description, verification testing and traceability analysis.
a. Glooko Logbook: The Glooko Logbook software was validated pursuant to the
moderate level of concern requirements. Design validation testing confirmed that
the Glooko device performs according to the stated intended use. Such testing
included Characterization of the Glooko Logbook spreadsheet, Data Integrity
Verification, Software Design Verification, Microsoft Excel Version Testing and
Glooko Logbook Application Version testing. The validation of Glooko Device
System for Logbook Application were validated in 29 patients with Type 1 and
Type 2 diabetes and 2 healthcare professionals.
The test goals for this study were to validate:
• Accuracy of data download into the Glooko device System
• Ability to share (transmit, download, save and email) and annotate data
• Effectiveness of user manual
• Ease of use of the Glooko MeterSync Cable and the Logbook Application
b. Glooko Logbook Charts: A validation study was conducted based on pre-designed
study protocol. The validation of Glooko Device System for Logbook Application
& Glooko Logbook Charts were validated in 22 patients with Type 1 and Type 2
diabetes and 15 healthcare professionals. The test goals for this study were to
validate:
• Effectiveness of the User Manual
• Ability to transmit, download, save and email csv files
• Ability to view and print the Logbook Chart graphs
2). A usability study was conducted using the Glooko Device System for Logbook
Application in 20 patients with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Additonal
subsequent validation/human usability studies for Glooko device system in 9
diabetes patients and 2 healthcare providers.
a. The protocol and acceptant criteria of the usability studies were reviewed and
found to be acceptable. The results from the usability study demonstrated that
the product performs as intended in the hands of lay users and healthcare
professionals. All test results fell within the pre-determined specification
parameters.
b. A readability study was performed on the labeling and the above studies were
reviewed and found to be acceptable.
6

--- Page 7 ---
3).The sponsor provided the appropriate documentation certifying that
electromagnetic testing been evaluated.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and
supports a substantial equivalence decision.
7