
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k123089
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for Diabetes Data Manager for use with the Abbott Freestyle Insulinx
meter cleared under k111874
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Abbott Laboratories
Freestyle auto-assist software version 2.0 with model
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
Freestyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 is a software application that
allows people with diabetes to upload data from Freestyle Insulinx, Precision
Xtra™, Freestyle Freedom, Freestyle 5, Freestyle Flash, Freestyle Lite and
Freestyle Freedom Lite Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems into FreeStyle
Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0, where users may review blood glucose and
other data in a number of different graphical presentations.
It is a stand-alone software program available for download to a home user’s
computer via download from an Abbott Diabetes Care (ADC) website or if a
previous version of Auto-Assist software is installed on the computer, through
a notification from the ADC Informatics Upgrade Server. The software will
also be available to users via a CD-ROM.
2. Principles of Operation:
• Data Upload
FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 retrieves each blood glucose
test result or ketone result, and the date and time of the measurement, from
the memory of recognized, compatible meters. It retrieves the data
through either a Serial or Serial/USB cable, a Strip Port /USB cable, or a
Micro-USB/USB cable. These data are viewable through and used by
FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 to generate reports.
Additionally these data may be exported to a text file (.txt) and saved.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 8
• Data Entry
Through the FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 user interface
additional personal notes, such as insulin, meals, and exercise data may be
added to the logged data collected from the meter.
• Data Access
Data from the compatible meter can be displayed through the software or
saved in text file format (.txt).
• Meter Settings Backup
For compatible meters, the meter settings are retrieved from the meter.
The meter settings can be saved to the computer by selecting the backup
meter file option.
• Report Generation/Printout, Logbook, Glucose Average, Daily Statistics,
Meal Event Averages
• Date/Time Synchronization with PC
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission: Yes or No X.
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from compatible meters using capillary whole blood
samples
6. Calibration:
Compatible meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Compatible meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__x____ or No ______

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 8
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Glucose Test System NBW: Blood Class II 21 CFR § Clinical
Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over- (75)
the- Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Module Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
for Clinical Use Module for Clinical (75)
Use
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Freestyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 is intended for use by people
with diabetes to aid in the review, analysis and evaluation of information such
as blood glucose results, blood ketone test results and other data uploaded
from a compatible meter, such as insulin doses and exercise data from the
Freestyle Insulinx meter, in support of an effective diabetes health
management program.
Freestyle Auto-Assist software is not intended for the diagnosis of or
screening for diabetes mellitus.
2. Special Condition for use Statement(s):
Over the Counter Use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
ABBOTT CoPilot™ Health Management System cleared under k062770.
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Feature Predicate CoPilot Diabetes Proposed
Data Management System Auto-Assist™ Software
Version 2.0
Editing of Patient Does not allow user to edit data Same
Data retrieved from a meter
Intended Use Intended for use by people with Same
diabetes to aid in the review,
analysis and evaluation of
information such as blood
glucose test results, blood ketone

[Table 1 on page 3]
Device Name	Product Code	Classification	Regulation	Panel
Glucose Test System	NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-
the- Counter	Class II	21 CFR §
862.1345	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)
Calculator/Data
Processing Module
for Clinical Use	JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for Clinical
Use	Class I	21 CFR §
862.2100	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Feature			Predicate CoPilot Diabetes			Proposed	
				Data Management System			Auto-Assist™ Software	
							Version 2.0	
Editing of Patient
Data			Does not allow user to edit data
retrieved from a meter			Same		
Intended Use			Intended for use by people with
diabetes to aid in the review,
analysis and evaluation of
information such as blood
glucose test results, blood ketone			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 8
Feature Predicate CoPilot Diabetes Proposed
Data Management System Auto-Assist™ Software
Version 2.0
test results and other data
uploaded from a meter, such as
insulin doses and exercise data,
in support of an effective
diabetes health management
program.
Statistical Glucose Statistics: Same
Functionality Average blood glucose
Summary concentration
Number of readings
Number of days
Target blood glucose range
Percent of readings above,
below, and within target range
Standard deviation of blood
glucose readings
Insulin Statistics:
Avg/Day
Avg/Day Total
Hardware CD-ROM drive (not required if Same
Requirements application is loaded from
internet)
Mouse
Printer (if user wants to print)
Internet connectivity (for host or
e-mail Communication)
Class I fax-enabled modem
(required for fax capabilities
only)
Data Cable
USB port
Data Transfer Serial or Serial/USB adapter Same
Communication cables.
Compatible Blood Precision Xtra™ Same
Glucose Meters Freestyle Freedom™
FreeStyle Lite
FreeStyle Freedom Lite
Languages English Same

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Feature			Predicate CoPilot Diabetes			Proposed	
				Data Management System			Auto-Assist™ Software	
							Version 2.0	
			test results and other data
uploaded from a meter, such as
insulin doses and exercise data,
in support of an effective
diabetes health management
program.					
Statistical
Functionality
Summary			Glucose Statistics:
Average blood glucose
concentration
Number of readings
Number of days
Target blood glucose range
Percent of readings above,
below, and within target range
Standard deviation of blood
glucose readings
Insulin Statistics:
Avg/Day
Avg/Day Total			Same		
Hardware
Requirements			CD-ROM drive (not required if
application is loaded from
internet)
Mouse
Printer (if user wants to print)
Internet connectivity (for host or
e-mail Communication)
Class I fax-enabled modem
(required for fax capabilities
only)
Data Cable
USB port			Same		
Data Transfer			Serial or Serial/USB adapter
Communication cables.			Same		
Compatible Blood
Glucose Meters			Precision Xtra™
Freestyle Freedom™
FreeStyle Lite
FreeStyle Freedom Lite			Same		
Languages			English			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 8
Differences
Feature Predicate CoPilot Diabetes Proposed
Data Management System Auto-Assist™ Software
Version 2.0
Import Capability Event Importing: No import capability
Tab delimited files
XML Files
Database Importing:
Precision Link (V.2.5 or higher)
FreeStyle Connect
CoZMonitor
Compatible Blood Precision® Xceed Freestyle Insulinx
Glucose Meters Freestyle® Freestyle 5
Freestyle Tracker® Freestyle Flash
Freestyle Navigator®
Continuous Glucose
Monitoring System
Operating System Microsoft Windows 98SE 2000 Microsoft Windows 7 (32 or
and XP 64 bit), Vista, or Windows XP
Mac OS X Snow Leopard or
Lion
Statistical Pump Statistics: None
Functionality Avg/Day Meal Bolus
Summary Avg/Day Correction Bolus
Avg/Day Total Bolus
Avg/Day Basal
Avg/Day Total Insulin
Hardware Co-Pilot for FreeStyle Not compatible with FreeStyle
Requirements Navigator: Navigator
Pentium 4 or above
512Mb
Kensington USB Bluetooth
Adapter and compatible
Widcomm driver (if
downloading data from
FreeStyle Navigator)
Languages No Spanish translation Spanish

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Feature			Predicate CoPilot Diabetes			Proposed	
				Data Management System			Auto-Assist™ Software	
							Version 2.0	
Import Capability			Event Importing:
Tab delimited files
XML Files
Database Importing:
Precision Link (V.2.5 or higher)
FreeStyle Connect
CoZMonitor			No import capability		
Compatible Blood
Glucose Meters			Precision® Xceed
Freestyle®
Freestyle Tracker®
Freestyle Navigator®
Continuous Glucose
Monitoring System			Freestyle Insulinx
Freestyle 5
Freestyle Flash		
Operating System			Microsoft Windows 98SE 2000
and XP			Microsoft Windows 7 (32 or
64 bit), Vista, or Windows XP
Mac OS X Snow Leopard or
Lion		
Statistical
Functionality
Summary			Pump Statistics:
Avg/Day Meal Bolus
Avg/Day Correction Bolus
Avg/Day Total Bolus
Avg/Day Basal
Avg/Day Total Insulin			None		
Hardware
Requirements			Co-Pilot for FreeStyle
Navigator:
Pentium 4 or above
512Mb
Kensington USB Bluetooth
Adapter and compatible
Widcomm driver (if
downloading data from
FreeStyle Navigator)			Not compatible with FreeStyle
Navigator		
Languages			No Spanish translation			Spanish		

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 8
Feature Predicate CoPilot Diabetes Proposed
Data Management System Auto-Assist™ Software
Version 2.0
Graphic Data Glucose data readings are Glucose data readings are
Displays displayed graphically along with displayed graphically along
the user-defined target range. with the user-defined target
Glucose data readings above range
target are displayed as purple Glucose data readings above
and below target range as target are displayed as green,
yellow. on target as blue, and below
Triangle = Discrete data target as gray.
Circle = Continuous data Open Circle = Average blood
Square = Manually entered glucose
glucose Closed Circle = Discrete blood
Above target = purple glucose data
Within target = green Up-Arrow = blood glucose
Below target = yellow value greater than 350mg/dl
Data Transfer Co-Pilot System for FreeStyle Micro-USB/USB adapter
Navigator functionality
communicates with FreeStyle
Navigator via Kensington
Bluetooth adapter/driver.
Storage Capacity CoPilot storage capacity is None
limited by the amount of
available hard disk storage space
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
IEC62366 Medical Devices - application of usability engineering to medical devices
J. Performance Characteristics:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, are presented in the
specific glucose clearance under k111874
1. Analytical Performance:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were presented in
the specific glucose meter clearance under k111874
a. Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c. Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Feature			Predicate CoPilot Diabetes			Proposed	
				Data Management System			Auto-Assist™ Software	
							Version 2.0	
Graphic Data
Displays			Glucose data readings are
displayed graphically along with
the user-defined target range.
Glucose data readings above
target are displayed as purple
and below target range as
yellow.
Triangle = Discrete data
Circle = Continuous data
Square = Manually entered
glucose
Above target = purple
Within target = green
Below target = yellow			Glucose data readings are
displayed graphically along
with the user-defined target
range
Glucose data readings above
target are displayed as green,
on target as blue, and below
target as gray.
Open Circle = Average blood
glucose
Closed Circle = Discrete blood
glucose data
Up-Arrow = blood glucose
value greater than 350mg/dl		
Data Transfer			Co-Pilot System for FreeStyle
Navigator functionality
communicates with FreeStyle
Navigator via Kensington
Bluetooth adapter/driver.			Micro-USB/USB adapter		
Storage Capacity			CoPilot storage capacity is
limited by the amount of
available hard disk storage space			None		

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 8
d. Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e. Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a. Human Factors Study. A total of 32 of 35 participants were fully
evaluated. Subjects were of typical computer experience and ages (age
range 18 to 66 years old) that would be expected to use diabetes data
management software were enrolled in the Human Factors study
conducted for FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0. All of the
study participants had diabetes: 13 were Type 1 and 22 were Type 2.
As part of the study, users installed the software on their test computer
desktop and launched the software. Task 1 required the subjects to install
the software, Task 2 required subjects to upload meter data and create and
print reports, and Task 3 required subjects to save previously generated
reports.
Users were assessed on their ability to upload meter data, create and print
reports, and save reports to their desktop. The Freestyle Freedom Lite
meter and the Precision Xtra meter were chosen as meters best
representing the line of compatible meter including the Freestyle Insulinx
meter and were preloaded with data such as blood glucose or ketone
results, based on the compatible meters, and users created reports and
graphs using this stored data. Stored data was automatically uploaded
from a compatible meter when it was connected to a computer running
FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0.
Based on the study, subjects were able to successfully create and view
reports, and the data in these reports matched the stored data in 100% of
cases.
b. Ease of Use Evaluation. Ease-of-use ratings for the Auto-Assist 2.0
software were recorded upon task completion in the Human Factors study.
Participants were asked to rate the ease of use for each task, on a scale
from 1 to 5, where 1 was very easy and 5 was very difficult. At the end of
the session, they were also asked to provide an overall rating of the
software using the same scale.
The overall success of the majority of participants led to a positive
experience with the software. On a 5-point scale where 1 represented very
difficult and 5 represented very easy, participants rated all tasks as

--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 8
relatively easy (Task 1: 4.3, Task 2: 4.1, and Task 3: 4.3). Even when
participants struggled with a task or failures occurred, participants still
thought that the software would benefit them by helping them better track
their diabetes. The participants who struggled assumed they would not
have difficulty if they were to use the software again. The benefits of
tracking their disease and the assumption that the software was easy to
learn gave participants an overall positive impression of the software,
which is reflected in the overall ease of use rating of 4.2.
c. Bench Testing. Bench testing was conducted during design verification
activities. The existing FreeStyle and Precision USB Data Cables were
used to upload data from compatible meters to the Auto-Assist 2.0
application running on a Windows or Mac Computer. Auto-Assist 2.0
verification was performed on the following supported Operating Systems:
• Windows XP SP3 (32-bit)
• Windows Vista (32-bit and 64-bit)
• Windows 7 (32-bit and 64-bit)
• Mac OS X Snow Leopard
• Mac OS X Lion
Meter memory capacity and data rollover is a function of meter design and
unchanged from those submitted in each meter pre-market application, and
thus was not tested as part of FreeStyle Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0
Auto-Assist 2.0 software has been verified to be implemented according to
its meter specific data upload requirements to meet 100% accuracy and
data management requirements.
d. Software documentation was reviewed and demonstrated that the device
was developed under appropriate software lifecycle processes.
e. The Auto-Assist Software Version 2.0 User’s Guide Readability
Assessment was at a 6.4 grade level using the Flesch-Kincaid
readability assessment.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.