
--- Page 1 ---
SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k123851
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quality Control Solution
E. Applicant:
Bionostics, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Glucose Meter-Check® Solution for Roche ACCU-CHEK
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1660, Quality Control Material
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved.
3. Product code:
JJX- Single (Specified) Analyte Controls (Assayed and Unassayed)
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication for use below
2. Indication(s) for use:
Glucose Meter-Check Solution Roche ACCU-CHEK is intended to assess the performance
of the following Roche ACCU-CHEK blood glucose monitoring systems:
•Roche ACCU-CHEK Nano SmartView® using SmartView® test strips
•Roche ACCU-CHEK Aviva® and ACCU-CHEK Aviva Combo® using Aviva Plus® test
strips
•Roche ACCU-CHEK Active® using ACCU-CHEK Active test strips
•Roche ACCU-CHEK Compact® and ACCU-CHEK Compact Plus® using ACCU-CHEK
Compact test strips.
•Roche ACCU-CHEK Advantage using Comfort Curve® test strips
Glucose Meter-Check Solution for Roche ACCU-CHEK is intended for use by healthcare
professionals and people with diabetes mellitus at home.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
This control solution will be labeled and distributed for use with Roche ACCU-CHEK
Blood Glucose Test Systems.
I. Device Description:
Glucose Meter-Check Solution is a single-level, viscosity-adjusted, aqueous liquid glucose
control solution. Glucose Meter-Check Solution is intended for use to verify the performance of
the Roche ACCU-CHEK brand BGM Systems listed in the package insert at recover glucose
values within the interval 2 recommended in ISO 15197:2003 In vitro diagnostic test systems –
Requirements for blood glucose monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes
mellitus for most meter types (Aviva, SmartView, Advantage), and comparable to solutions
currently marketed by Roche for others (Active, Compact). This mid-level glucose
concentration will complement the current, low and high glucose concentrations available in
quality control products distributed by Roche Diagnostics for these same BGM systems. The
product is packaged in plastic bottles with dropper tips for application of the solution to test
strips. The control has a red color to help users see the solution while dispensing onto a test
strip.
Glucose Meter-Check Solution is a non-hazardous aqueous solution glucose control solution
containing no ingredients of biological origin, or in concentrations qualifying as a controlled
product under the Controlled Products Regulation.

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Glucose Meter-Check Solution for Roche ACCU-CHECK BGMS
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k081403
3. Comparison with predicate:
Table 1. Similarities and differences between candidate and predicate device.
Similarities and Differences of the Blood Glucose Control
Predicate Device Candidate Device
Item Glucose Meter-Check Solution for Roche Same
ACCU-CHECK BGMS K081403 K123851
Intended Glucose Meter-Check® for Roche is Same, with the addition of ACCU-CHEK
Use/Indications for intended for in vitro diagnostic use to Nano
Use assess the performance of the Roche
ACCU-CHEK blood glucose test systems:
Aviva, Active, Advantage and Compact
and Compact Plus by healthcare
professionals and in the home by people
with diabetes mellitus.
Stability 24 Months same
Value assignment determined by analysis of glucose on same
commercial lots of glucose test strips
qualified for proper measurement using
manufacturer recommended control
solution
Traceability N.I.S.T. SRM 917 same
Target range 83 – 110 mg/dL 106 – 176 mg/dL
(range of midpoint assigned values with (range of midpoint assigned values with
various BGMS) various BGMS)
Auto QC detection no yes, for AVIVA and Nano
Matrix Concentration Concentration
Ingredient (w/v%) Ingredient (w/v%)
High Purity Water 91.6 High Purity Water 88.6
Buffers 1.0 Buffers same
Salts 0.5 Salts 3.5
Viscosity 6.6 Viscosity same
Modifier Modifier
Glucose 0.10 Glucose 0.12
Preservatives 0.05 Preservatives same
Dye 0.08 Dye same
Container 6 mL white LDPE same
Analyte glucose same
Color red same
Net Fill 4 mL same

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences of the Blood Glucose Control					
					
	Predicate Device		Candidate Device		
Item	Glucose Meter-Check Solution for Roche		Same		
	ACCU-CHECK BGMS K081403		K123851		
					
Intended
Use/Indications for
Use	Glucose Meter-Check® for Roche is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use to
assess the performance of the Roche
ACCU-CHEK blood glucose test systems:
Aviva, Active, Advantage and Compact
and Compact Plus by healthcare
professionals and in the home by people
with diabetes mellitus.		Same, with the addition of ACCU-CHEK
Nano		
Stability	24 Months		same		
Value assignment	determined by analysis of glucose on
commercial lots of glucose test strips
qualified for proper measurement using
manufacturer recommended control
solution		same		
Traceability	N.I.S.T. SRM 917		same		
Target range	83 – 110 mg/dL
(range of midpoint assigned values with
various BGMS)		106 – 176 mg/dL
(range of midpoint assigned values with
various BGMS)		
Auto QC detection	no		yes, for AVIVA and Nano		
Matrix	Ingredient	Concentration
(w/v%)	Ingredient	Concentration
(w/v%)	
	High Purity Water	91.6	High Purity Water	88.6	
	Buffers	1.0	Buffers	same	
	Salts	0.5	Salts	3.5	
	Viscosity
Modifier	6.6	Viscosity
Modifier	same	
	Glucose	0.10	Glucose	0.12	
	Preservatives	0.05	Preservatives	same	
	Dye	0.08	Dye	same	
Container	6 mL white LDPE		same		
Analyte	glucose		same		
Color	red		same		
Net Fill	4 mL		same		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
•ISO 15197:2003 In Vitro diagnostic test systems – Requirements for blood glucose
monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus.
•ISO 14971:2007 Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devices
•ISO 15223-1 Medical devices – Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labeling and
information to be supplied – Part 1: General Requirements
•ISO 18113-4 In vitro diagnostic medical devices - Information supplied by the manufacturer
(labeling) - Part 4: In vitro diagnostic reagents for self-testing EN 13640 Stability Testing
of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents
•Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff – Assayed and Unassayed Quality Control Material
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The Glucose Meter-Check Solution for Roche ACCU-CHEK is traceable to NIST
SRM 917.
Value Assignment:
Value assignment for each production lot of control solution is determined by
analysis of glucose on commercial lots of glucose test strips qualified for proper
measurement using manufacturer recommended control solution. Each meter and strip
combination is considered to be operating correctly if all measurements of Roche
ACCU-CHEK branded control solutions are recovered within the assay ranges
provided on each carton of test strips. Value assignment range is determined as the
mean value of all measurements ± 15% of the mean value.
Stability:
Product stability has been established based on real time studies. The studies performed
showed that the control materials remained within specification to support the sponsor’s
claims of stability.
(1) Transport Stability (closed). Testing demonstrated less than 5% change in
glucose concentration over a 10 day period, under extreme temperature
conditions.

--- Page 5 ---
(2) Open-Vial Stability: Testing demonstrated less than 5% change in glucose
concentration over the 90 day evaluation period.
(3) Closed-Vial Stability: Testing demonstrated less than 10% change in glucose
concentration over 24 months at 30°C.
d. Matrix effect:
Not applicable
e. Detection
limit:
Not applicable
f. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
g. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
An expected range for each glucose monitoring system is printed in the labeling. When
using this control material, users are to compare their control results to the range printed
in the labeling for the system being used rather than the range printed on the test strip.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and
supports a substantial equivalence decision.