
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k123136
B. Purpose for Submission:
New 510(k) for Diabetes Data Manager for use with Genesis Health Technologies
Blood Glucose Meter TD-4123 with cellular module cleared under k121224
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Genesis Health Technologies
Genesis Health Record System
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
Device Description:
The Genesis Health Record System (GHRS), an internet browser-based software
system, is an optional accessory to the Genesis Blood Glucose Monitoring System
(Genesis BGMS) that aids in diabetes care and management. The GHRS receives
test results from the Genesis Blood Glucose Meter (Genesis BGM) via secure
cellular transmission over the Verizon wireless network, and stores these results
in a secured database.
Principles of Operation:
Once a patient’s glucose measurement is taken, the cellular module automatically
searches for and connects to the Verizon cellular network and uploads the test
result to the patient’s account. After the reading is successfully uploaded to the
patient’s account of the upload is confirmed to the device and patient.
Once uploaded to the secured database, an individual patient's results can only be
viewed by that patient and by additional person(s) authorized by that patient. The
Genesis BGMS and GHRS are not intended to provide automated treatment
guidance or decisions, nor are they to be used as a substitute for professional
healthcare judgment.
Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission: Yes X or No .

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 7
Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes__X____ or No ______
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Glucose Test System NBW: Blood Class II 21 CFR § Clinical
Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over- (75)
the- Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Module Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
for Clinical Use Module for Clinical (75)
Use
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Genesis Health Record System is an accessory to the Genesis Health
Technologies Blood Glucose Meter, Model TD-4123 to assist in the review
and evaluation of blood glucose test results and related information to aid in
diabetes management. It is indicated for use by adult diabetic patients for use
in the home and by healthcare professionals in the professional setting. The
System is not intended to provide automated treatment guidance or decisions.
The System is not indicated for the diagnosis or screening of diabetes.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription and Over the Counter Use

[Table 1 on page 2]
Device Name	Product Code	Classification	Regulation	Panel
Glucose Test System	NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-
the- Counter	Class II	21 CFR §
862.1345	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)
Calculator/Data
Processing Module
for Clinical Use	JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for Clinical
Use	Class I	21 CFR §
862.2100	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 7
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
PC Care by i-SENS k100937
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Substantial Equivalence Information
Feature Candidate Device: GHRS Predicate Device: PC Care by
i-SENS K100937
Intended Use The Genesis Health Record Same
System is an accessory to
blood glucose meters to assist
in the review and evaluation of
blood glucose test results and
related information to aid in
diabetes management. It is
indicated for use by adult
diabetic patients for use in the
home and by healthcare
professionals in the
professional setting. The
System is not intended to
provide automated treatment
guidance or decisions. The
System is not indicated for the
diagnosis or screening of
diabetes.
Major Features of Device
Transfer data from a Automatically, from device to a Automatically from device to
blood glucose meter to a remote database wirelessly PC via a special USB cable
database over a secure
cellular network using CDMA
technology.

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Substantial Equivalence Information							
	Feature			Candidate Device: GHRS			Predicate Device: PC Care by	
							i-SENS K100937	
Intended Use			The Genesis Health Record
System is an accessory to
blood glucose meters to assist
in the review and evaluation of
blood glucose test results and
related information to aid in
diabetes management. It is
indicated for use by adult
diabetic patients for use in the
home and by healthcare
professionals in the
professional setting. The
System is not intended to
provide automated treatment
guidance or decisions. The
System is not indicated for the
diagnosis or screening of
diabetes.			Same		
Major Features of Device								
Transfer data from a
blood glucose meter to a
database			Automatically, from device to a
remote database wirelessly
over a secure
cellular network using CDMA
technology.			Automatically from device to
PC via a special USB cable		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 7
Substantial Equivalence Information
Feature Candidate Device: GHRS Predicate Device: PC Care by
i-SENS K100937
Data can be analyzed by Logbook, Logbook Same
user to display trends in summary, Test history in graph
graph form. Multiple types formats, Trends over specified
of reports can be date range
displayed
Data is stored in a In a remote server On the local PC
Database
Results and reports can Authorized users can log on to Reports can be attached to
be shared with others MYGHR website and view email or printed out.
results
Parameters can be Target ranges, dates various Same
customized health parameters
Installation of Program Not required Site is internet Installed using a CD
based and accessed through a
web browser
Computer System Device using Windows, Mac, CPU: Minimum 300 MHZ Intel
Requirements iPhone, Android or similar OS, Pentium 2 Windows 95,
with one of the following Windows 98, Windows ME,
approved browsers installed: Windows 2000, Windows XP,
Internet Explorer 9 Windows Vista and Windows
Mozilla Firefox 12 7
Apple iOS 5 Minimum free hard disk space:
Apple Safari 5.1 60MB RAM 128MB or higher
Google Chrome 19 USB port required PC Care
Android Internet Browser 2.3 USB Cable
Mouse and Keyboard
Video monitor with 1024x768
pixel screen minimum and
256 colors
CD-Rom drive optional printer
Access to DMS Accessed via internet on any From personal computer via
PC with internet connection program
and approved browser
Indication time of test Describes tests: Normal (in- Same
between meals), Before Meal,
After Meal, Control Solution

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Substantial Equivalence Information							
	Feature			Candidate Device: GHRS			Predicate Device: PC Care by	
							i-SENS K100937	
Data can be analyzed by
user to display trends in
graph form. Multiple types
of reports can be
displayed			Logbook, Logbook
summary, Test history in graph
formats, Trends over specified
date range			Same		
Data is stored in a
Database			In a remote server			On the local PC		
Results and reports can
be shared with others			Authorized users can log on to
MYGHR website and view
results			Reports can be attached to
email or printed out.		
Parameters can be
customized			Target ranges, dates various
health parameters			Same		
Installation of Program			Not required Site is internet
based and accessed through a
web browser			Installed using a CD		
Computer System
Requirements			Device using Windows, Mac,
iPhone, Android or similar OS,
with one of the following
approved browsers installed:
Internet Explorer 9
Mozilla Firefox 12
Apple iOS 5
Apple Safari 5.1
Google Chrome 19
Android Internet Browser 2.3			CPU: Minimum 300 MHZ Intel
Pentium 2 Windows 95,
Windows 98, Windows ME,
Windows 2000, Windows XP,
Windows Vista and Windows
7
Minimum free hard disk space:
60MB RAM 128MB or higher
USB port required PC Care
USB Cable
Mouse and Keyboard
Video monitor with 1024x768
pixel screen minimum and
256 colors
CD-Rom drive optional printer		
Access to DMS			Accessed via internet on any
PC with internet connection
and approved browser			From personal computer via
program		
Indication time of test			Describes tests: Normal (in-
between meals), Before Meal,
After Meal, Control Solution			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 7
Substantial Equivalence Information
Feature Candidate Device: GHRS Predicate Device: PC Care by
i-SENS K100937
User Manual Accessed online On program installation
CD
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
· ISO 14971:2007 Medical devices - Application of risk management to
medical devices
· IEC 62304:2006 Medical device software ‐ Software life cycle processes
· IEC 60601-1-2 Medical Electrical Equipment- Part 1-2: General
Requirements for Safety- Collateral standard: Electromagnetic Compatibility
J. Performance Characteristics:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, are presented in the
specific glucose clearance under k121224.
· Analytical Performance:
1. The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were presented
in the specific glucose meter clearance under k121224
a) Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b) Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c) Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d) Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e) Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a) A human factors study was performed to assess usability of the
GHRS system and data. Testing was conducted with 25 test patient
users, 25 Genesis Health Technologies Blood Glucose Meter, Model
TD-4123, and 4 healthcare professionals. Patients used the meter with
control-solution only.
Another phase of testing was continued over a 3-week period in a
simulated-use environment. Patients were asked to use the system as

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Substantial Equivalence Information							
	Feature			Candidate Device: GHRS			Predicate Device: PC Care by	
							i-SENS K100937	
User Manual			Accessed online			On program installation
CD		

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 7
they typically would in a real-world scenario. Patients were asked to
take “sample” readings (using control solution) three times per day.
20 of the patients tested over a five day period, and 5 of the patients
tested over a 3-week period. Patients were asked to complete a set of
tasks in the online MyGHR system similar to those performed in the
initial test session. Patients were asked to provide feedback on the
system and submit the feedback at the end of the testing period.
At the end of the study, the meters were collected from the test
patients by MyGHR employees. At this point, the data history on the
meters was compared with the data stored in the MyGHR system
(using the GHR-Admin portal). A comparison of the data, including
reading type, glucose value, and reading date/time was tabulated to
ensure 100% accuracy of the data uploaded from each meter.
These studies confirm that adults with average education and
computer skills and no prior knowledge of the system can safely and
accurately use the GHT BGM Meter (GHT-BGM-TD-4123) and the
GHRS online web-based portal without direct instruction or training.
The testing also confirmed that the meters and patients can be
managed by healthcare professionals to track and view patient
glucose readings and reports, and perform account and profile
management. The study confirmed that the system is 100% accurate
with respect to data accuracy and integrity when used by patients in
an intended use environment.
b) Bench Testing was performed using control solutions tested 20 times
to automatically transmit data after each measurement on each of 2
Genesis Health Technologies Blood Glucose Meters, Model TD-4123
over the cellular network to 2 test account logins on the GHRS. All
data fields, such as result, time, date, meter ID, including report and
graphs were 100% accurate.
c) Software documentation was reviewed and demonstrated that the
device was developed under appropriate software lifecycle processes.
d) Genesis Health Technologies Blood Glucose System owner’s manual
cleared under k121224 was modified only to include information and
instructions for the Genesis Health Record System. The sponsor
provided the results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability assessment which
indicated a Grade Level Score 6.6 of Genesis Health Technologies
Blood Glucose System owner’s manual. The sponsor also provided
the results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability assessment with Grade
Level Score 9.4 obtained for the Genesis Health Record System
owner’s manual.

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 7
e) The sponsor provided a statement of conformity to IEC 60601-1-2,
Medical Electrical Equipment- Part 1-2 and provided testing
laboratory certification to Emission Test Compliance to
Electromagnetic Environment-Guidance.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.