
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K123087
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) Tyson Bio AC100 Blood
Glucose Monitoring System (k101543).
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for
· Name changes from TysonBio AC100 Blood Glucose Monitoring system to TysonBio
AC500, AC500 Pro, AC800 and AC800 Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems
· Minor outer design changes include:
o Operational button shape and position,
o Embedded color changes of casing and buttons
o Oval shape verses egg shape
· The addition of a backlit display on the AC800 models
· Remove voice function from AC500 models
· The hematocrit range change to 20% - 60% from 35-55% utilizing a modification in the
applied voltage pulse frequency specifications, while using the same the final stage
signal voltage and amperometric method.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The validation protocols were adequate to address the identified causes of hazards identified in the Risk
analysis (FMEA).
The devices consist of both single-patient use and multiple-patient use. . Disinfection efficacy studies
were performed on the materials comprising the meter and lancing device by an outside commercial
testing laboratory demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the chosen
disinfectant, Cavicide Surface Disinfectant (EPA Registration #46781-6). Robustness studies were also
performed by the sponsor demonstrated that there was no change in performance or in the external
materials of the meter after 36500 cleaning and disinfection cycles, using Cavicide Surface Disinfectant
designed to simulate cleaning and disinfection 20 times a day, over 5 years of device use. The sponsor
also demonstrated that there was no change in performance or in the external materials of the lancing
device for single-patient use after 7300 cleaning and disinfection cycles designed to simulate cleaning
and disinfection 4 times a day, over 5 years of device use. Labeling has been reviewed for adequate
instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.