
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K123955
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of QuantStudio Dx Real-Time PCR system
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Life Technologies QuantStudio Dx Real-Time PCR instrument
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Real-Time PCR
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument is a bench top Real-Time PCR instrument that
uses fluorescent-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reagents to provide
qualitative or quantitative detection of target nucleic acid sequences (targets)
using real-time analysis from a 96-well (or 384-well) plate. Samples are prepared
for nucleic acid testing manually by the user using specific reagents indicated by
the assay. The QuantStudio™ Dx Instrument system includes the following
components:
a. QuantStudio™ Dx Real-Time PCR instrument with touchscreen
b. Thermal Block with associated Heated Cover and Plate Adaptor
c. Calibration and verification materials for instrument qualification
d. Computer workstation with a monitor, keyboard, and mouse
e. QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software
There are two distinct types of software associated with the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument:
· Embedded software: The QuantStudio™ Dx embedded software is
contained within the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument. It includes the
embedded graphical user interface (eGUI) software which controls the
Touchscreen, the instrument controller software and associated
components (firmware), and the Smart Monitor (a monitoring agent). The
1

--- Page 2 ---
QuantStudio™ Dx embedded software manages instrument operations and
enables the user to monitor instrument status.
· Instrument software: The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software is
installed on a separate computer and communicates with the instrument to
control the instrument and collect data. The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument
software performs data analysis and outputs analyzed results.
2. Principles of Operation:
The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument executes an approved diagnostic test, also
known as a run, according to parameters that are pre-determined by the diagnostic
test manufacturer. The diagnostic test parameters are established and locked in a
Test Definition Document (TDD) that is imported into the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument software.
To initiate a run on the instrument, the user must start the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument software, select an imported TDD file, and enter plate-specific sample
information. A user can only start a run from an imported TDD file. TDD files
are created and supplied by the reagent kit or test manufacturer.
During the run, the instrument collects raw fluorescence data following each
extension step of the PCR. A data collection point, or read, on the instrument
consists of three phases:
a. Excitation: The instrument illuminates all wells of the plate, exciting the
fluorophores in each reaction.
b. Emission: The instrument optics collects the residual fluorescence emitted
from the wells of the plate. The resulting image collected by the device
consists only of light that corresponds to the range of emission wavelengths.
c. Collection: The instrument assembles a digital representation of the residual
fluorescence collected over a fixed time interval. The software stores the raw
fluorescent image for analysis.
After a run, the software uses calibration data to determine the location and
intensity of the fluorescent signals in each read, the dye associated with each
fluorescent signal, and the significance of the signal. This signal information is
translated into metrics for each well that are then used for analysis to provide
quantitative or qualitative information. The software completes the analysis
according to the parameters in the TDD file. Any further interpretation of the
analyzed results is determined by instructions provided by the diagnostic test
manufacturer.
2

--- Page 3 ---
The Quidel Molecular Direct C. difficile assay that provides the performance data
to support this submission is a qualitative assay that provides results of
“Negative,” “C. difficile Positive” or “Invalid” based on the detection of a Ct
value for Clostridium difficile toxin A gene (tcdA) or toxin B gene (tcdB) with
respect to the process control. The probes for tcdA and tcdB are labeled with CAL
Fluor Orange 560 and the process control is labeled with Quasar 670,
corresponding to filter sets x2-m2 and x5-m5 on the QuantStudio™ Dx Real-
Time PCR instrument of the 6 available filter sets. The assay run parameters are
determined by TDD file 2.01, provided and validated by Quidel Corporation.
Note that, because the QuantStudio™ Dx Real-Time PCR instrument relies on
analytical and clinical data from the Quidel Molecular Direct C. difficile assay
submission (k123998), that only the filters sets used in that assay (x2-m2 and x5-
m5) can be cleared for the In Vitro Diagnostics (IVD) labeling.
3. Modes of Operation:
The QuantStudio™ Dx Real-Time PCR instrument has two modes of operation:
IVD and Research Use Only (RUO), which cannot be executed simultaneously.
The specific protocols that are performed on each instrument for IVD assays
depend upon the assay-specific, closed-mode application specifications that are
installed on the system.
The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software is IVD-labeled and controlled; users
must log into this software. Only IVD-labeled Test Definition Documents
certified by Life Technologies will operate in this software. A separate and
distinct Test Development Software package is available that allows the user to
perform other work in a (RUO) environment. The Test Development Software
allows customers who conduct research to do so using the same instrument. To
demonstrate that non-approved functions do not interfere with approved
functions, controls and safeguards have been implemented to ensure the distinct
separation between the IVD and Test Development workflows. In addition,
internal verification testing was performed to demonstrate that co-installation of
the Test Development Software with the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software
does not impact the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software IVD functionality.
The FDA is not reviewing, clearing or approving any of the open-
mode/laboratory-defined functionalities and requires documentation and evidence
that these functionalities do not interfere with IVD functionalities.
4. Specimen Identification:
An optional barcode scanner can be attached to the computer via a USB port. The
barcode scanner can be used to scan the barcodes on plates and reagents used for
the approved diagnostic test. In the absence of a barcode scanner, the user can
input the plate and reagent information manually using the instrument software.
The barcode scanner was installed on the QuantStudio™ Dx Instrument during
3

--- Page 4 ---
internal verification testing and during Quidel® Corporation’s non-clinical and
clinical performance evaluation studies.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specific preparation protocols depend on the application specifications of the
assay being used on the QuantStudio™ Dx system. There is no automated sample
processing instrument offered in conjunction with the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument.
For the Molecular Direct C. difficile assay, swab specimens of stool are dispersed
in 500 µl of buffer, 30 µl of which is transferred to 570 µl buffer. 15 µl of
rehydrated Master Mix is added to a 96-well plate followed by 5 µl of the diluted
specimen, which is then sealed and centrifuged for 15 seconds. The plate is then
inserted into the thermocycler.
6. Calibration:
QuantStudio™ Dx System Optical Calibration
The instrument is calibrated for background fluorescence, Region of Interest
(ROI), uniformity, pure dyes, and normalization, and then verified. At instrument
installation, a trained service engineer installs the instrument and performs the
initial calibration. The user is trained in conjunction with the initial calibration in
order to perform the subsequent required calibrations. All required instrument
calibration is performed using the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software. The
background fluorescence calibration is required on a monthly basis while the ROI,
uniformity, pure dye, and normalization calibrations are required at six month
intervals.
a. ROI calibration: Identifies the positions of the wells on the Thermal Block
of the instrument.
b. Background calibration: The software uses the background calibration
data to remove background fluorescence from the test data.
c. Uniformity calibration: Generates data that allows the software to
compensate for the physical effects of the instrument filters. The software
uses the uniformity calibration to account for well-to-well differences in
fluorescence signal.
d. Pure Dye calibration: The software uses the pure dye calibration data
collected from the dye calibration plates to characterize and distinguish the
individual contribution of each dye in the total fluorescence collected by
the instrument.
4

--- Page 5 ---
e. Normalization calibration: The normalization calibration data is used to
normalize the instrument signal to within a standard range to reduce
instrument-to-instrument variability.
f. RNase P Instrument Performance Verification: The RNase P instrument
verification test confirms the performance of the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument. The RNase P plate is preloaded with the reagents necessary
for the detection and quantification of genomic copies of the human
RNase P gene (a single-copy gene encoding the RNase moiety of the
RNase P enzyme). An RNase P plate can be run at any time. It is
recommended that the user runs the RNase P plate when the Halogen
Lamp is replaced or when the instrument is moved.
The labeled shelf-life for all calibration and verification materials will be 12
months at -20ºC.
After installation of the instrument, the user can perform all required regular
maintenance and calibration using IVD-labeled calibration plates. Life
Technologies provides a service option to users to have a trained Life
Technologies service engineer perform the maintenance and calibration if desired.
In addition to the required calibration, the user must also maintain the operational
condition of the instrument.
7. Quality Control:
Quality control is addressed for each separately cleared specific assay to be run on
the instrument. For the Quidel Molecular Direct C. difficile assay, quality is
maintained by the process control, used during sample processing and
amplification in the assay. Additionally, there are external positive and negative
controls available that may be used in accordance with the user lab standards.
8. Software:
The latest version of the QuantStudio™ Dx Instrument software is v1.1.6 as of
09/21/2012 and the embedded software is ID C14R18, as of 10/17/2012.
Note that off-the-shelf software is used with this instrument (e.g. MS Windows 7,
MS Office 2010), which is co-installed during installation with the instrument
software to an off-the-shelf computer. The components important within the
guidance document “Off-The-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices” have been
met within the submission.
a. Level of Concern:
Life technologies has determined this device as a moderate level of concern,
based on the potential that software design flaws or failures cause an
erroneous diagnosis or minor injury that could result in unnecessary or
5

--- Page 6 ---
delayed treatment. This level of concern meets the requirement and is
accepted by FDA.
b. Software Description:
There are two distinct types of software associated with the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument, embedded and instrument software. The user interfaces with the
embedded software through a LCD touchscreen (and an optional barcode
scanner), and with the instrument software via an attached computer.
· Embedded software:
The QuantStudio™ Dx embedded software is contained within the
thermocycler. It includes the embedded graphical user interface (eGUI)
software which controls the Touchscreen, the instrument controller
software and associated components (firmware), and the Smart Monitor (a
monitoring agent for electromechanical function, not test data). The
QuantStudio™ Dx embedded software manages instrument operations and
enables the user to monitor instrument status.
· Instrument Software:
The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software is installed on a separate
computer and communicates with the instrument to control the instrument
and collect data. The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software performs
data analysis and outputs analyzed results. The instrument software is also
referred to as the “Data Collection Software.”
The programming language used to develop the QuantStudio™ Dx software
was Java v1.6.
c. Device Hazard Analysis (DHA):
Life Technologies provided a DHA for the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument
software including hazards, severity and mitigation. After mitigation, all
hazards scored in the Tolerable or Broadly Acceptable Regions (TOL; BAR).
The sponsor provided a tabular description of identified hardware and
software hazards, including severity assessment and mitigations that meet
FDA requirements.
d. Software Design Specification (SDS):
Life Technologies provided design specification documents, which include a
Data Collection Software, eGUI, Firmware, Data Collection Algorithm and
the Smart Monitor, which meet FDA software requirements. The sponsor
provided adequate SDS descriptions to show how the requirements in the SRS
are implemented.
e. Software Requirements Specifications (SRS):
Life Technologies provided SRS documentation for Data Collection and eGUI
software. The hardware platform requirements to operate the QuantStudio™
Dx instrument software are: MS Windows 7 SP1, 32-bit OS; 3.0 GHz
6

--- Page 7 ---
processor; 4GB RAM; 10 GB HDD; 1280 x 1024 pixel monitor; IE v6.0. The
submitted description meets FDA requirements. The single-board computer
(SBC) embedded software requirements are a 1.8 GHz processor, 4GB RAM
and an 8 GB HDD.
The QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software co-installs with Microsoft Office
2010. During initialization, the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software
performs an integrity check to verify that the installed application has not been
tampered with and that all software components are available and uncorrupted.
The submitted description meets FDA requirements.
f. Traceability:
The trace matrix is described from design input to output. Life Technologies
provided a diagrammatic overview and comprehensive information showing
traceability between user needs, DHA, SRS, SDS and V&V.
g. Verification and Validation (V&V):
Sufficient documentation for V&V testing including pass/fail criteria and
results meet FDA requirements.
h. Revision Level History (RLH):
Life Technologies provided an adequate RLH that details changes made for
both the embedded and instrument software that meets the FDA requirement.
The latest version of the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument software is v1.1.6 as of
09/21/2012 and the embedded software is ID C14R18, as of 10/17/2012.
i. Architecture Design Chart:
Adequate flow charts were provided showing detailed depiction of functional
units and software modules. The eGUI and firmware is housed on a SBC. The
eGUI, Main Instrument Controller and Instrument software communicate via
TCP/IP. All firmware components communicate via Controller Area Network.
Instrument software communicates with the Laboratory Information System
via the Application Programming Interface. Smart Monitor transmission is
secured by SSL encryption and LDAP authentication to ensure that only Life
Technologies service personnel can access the transmitted data.
j. Unresolved Anomalies (UA):
Life Technologies provided a list of Unresolved Anomalies for review. There
were seven unresolved anomalies, six of which had severity ratings of minor
and one rated as moderate. The moderate severity anomaly (Anomaly ID
1015) is a complication with the eGUI, where it does not allow the calibration
expiry interval to be less than the default. The user can access (not modify)
this feature in the instrument software. No data are lost and the product or user
safety is not impacted. The workaround is to make any desired edits in the
instrument software, rather than in the eGUI.
7

--- Page 8 ---
k. User Guide:
A user guide was provided for the QuantStudio™ Dx instrument. Quick
reference instructions were provided that demonstrates how to interface with
the instrument and prepare the assay for analysis. The user guide was
reviewed to ensure that the containing language was appropriate for an IVD
label (e.g. removing any RUO language). No instances of non-IVD language
were found within the IVD-labeled User Guide or the IVD-labeled Quick
Reference.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.2570 Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
OOI (Real-Time Nucleic Acid Amplification System) for Real-Time instrument.
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The QuantStudio™ Dx Real-Time PCR Instrument with QuantStudio™ Dx
Software is intended to perform fluorescence-based PCR to provide detection of
FDA cleared and approved nucleic acid sequences in human-derived specimens.
The QuantStudio™ Dx Real-Time PCR Instrument with QuantStudio™ Dx
Software is intended for in vitro diagnostic use by trained laboratory technologists
in combination with nucleic acid reagent kits/tests manufactured and labeled for
diagnostic purposes on this instrument.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) number(s):
Abbott m2000™ System (K092705).
8

--- Page 9 ---
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Subject Device Predicate Device
QuantStudio™ Dx Abbott m2000
TM
Real-Time PCR System (K092705)
Instrument
Product Code OOI: Real-Time Same
Nucleic Acid
Amplification System
for Real Time
Instruments.
Device Class Class II Same
Intended Use
The QuantStudio™ Dx The Abbott m2000 system
Real-Time PCR is intended for in vitro
Instrument with
diagnostic use in
QuantStudio™ Dx
performing FDA cleared
Software is intended to
and approved nucleic acid
perform fluorescence-
testing in clinical
based PCR to provide
detection of FDA cleared laboratories. It comprises
and approved nucleic the Abbott m2000sp and
acid sequences in human- the Abbott m2000rt
derived specimens. The instruments. The Abbott
QuantStudio™ Dx Real-
m2000sp is an automated
Time PCR Instrument
system for performing
with QuantStudio™ Dx
sample preparation for
Software is intended for
nucleic acid testing. The
in vitro diagnostic use by
trained laboratory Abbott m2000rt is an
technologists in automated system for
combination with nucleic performing fluorescence-
acid reagent based PCR to provide
kits/tests manufactured
quantitative and
and labeled for
qualitative detection of
diagnostic purposes on
nucleic acid sequences.
this instrument.
Technology/Detection Real-Time PCR Same
Specimen Types Nucleic acid Same
Assay Format Homogeneous, closed Same
tube PCR
Degree of Automation Requires manual transfer Same
of amplification mixture
to amplification/detection
instrument
Automated control of
amplification, detection,
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Similarities								
	Item			Subject Device			Predicate Device	
				QuantStudio™ Dx			Abbott m2000
TM	
				Real-Time PCR			System (K092705)	
				Instrument				
Product Code			OOI: Real-Time
Nucleic Acid
Amplification System
for Real Time
Instruments.			Same		
Device Class			Class II			Same		
Intended Use			The QuantStudio™ Dx
Real-Time PCR
Instrument with
QuantStudio™ Dx
Software is intended to
perform fluorescence-
based PCR to provide
detection of FDA cleared
and approved nucleic
acid sequences in human-
derived specimens. The
QuantStudio™ Dx Real-
Time PCR Instrument
with QuantStudio™ Dx
Software is intended for
in vitro diagnostic use by
trained laboratory
technologists in
combination with nucleic
acid reagent
kits/tests manufactured
and labeled for
diagnostic purposes on
this instrument.			The Abbott m2000 system
is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use in
performing FDA cleared
and approved nucleic acid
testing in clinical
laboratories. It comprises
the Abbott m2000sp and
the Abbott m2000rt
instruments. The Abbott
m2000sp is an automated
system for performing
sample preparation for
nucleic acid testing. The
Abbott m2000rt is an
automated system for
performing fluorescence-
based PCR to provide
quantitative and
qualitative detection of
nucleic acid sequences.		
Technology/Detection			Real-Time PCR			Same		
Specimen Types			Nucleic acid			Same		
Assay Format			Homogeneous, closed
tube PCR			Same		
Degree of Automation			Requires manual transfer
of amplification mixture
to amplification/detection
instrument
Automated control of
amplification, detection,			Same		

--- Page 10 ---
Similarities
Item Subject Device Predicate Device
QuantStudio™ Dx Abbott m2000
TM
Real-Time PCR System (K092705)
Instrument
and data analysis
Primary Operational Integrated thermocycler Same
Amplification and and microvolume
Detection Components fluorimeter for walk
away PCR amplification
and detection
Heating Method for Peltier device with Same
Amplification sample block
Detection Procedure Optical detection of Same
stimulated fluorescence
Detection Chemistries Fluorescence labeled, Same
target-specific probes
Differences
Item Subject Device Predicate Device
QuantStudio™ Dx Abbott m2000
TM
Real-Time PCR System (K092705)
Instrument
User Interface PC with instrument- PC with instrument-
specific software. specific software
Instrument has
touchscreen console.
Amplification Reaction 10-30 μL in 96-well 25-100 μL in 96-well
Volume Fast PCR plates PCR plates
Sample Preparation No automated sample Pairing with the
processing instrument m2000sp instrument
offered in conjunction provides automated
with the QuantStudio™ sample processing.
Dx instrument.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex
Test Systems:
http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/GuidanceDocum
ents/ucm077819.htm
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
Similarities								
	Item			Subject Device			Predicate Device	
				QuantStudio™ Dx			Abbott m2000
TM	
				Real-Time PCR			System (K092705)	
				Instrument				
			and data analysis					
Primary Operational
Amplification and
Detection Components			Integrated thermocycler
and microvolume
fluorimeter for walk
away PCR amplification
and detection			Same		
Heating Method for
Amplification			Peltier device with
sample block			Same		
Detection Procedure			Optical detection of
stimulated fluorescence			Same		
Detection Chemistries			Fluorescence labeled,
target-specific probes			Same		

[Table 2 on page 10]
Differences								
	Item			Subject Device			Predicate Device	
				QuantStudio™ Dx			Abbott m2000
TM	
				Real-Time PCR			System (K092705)	
				Instrument				
User Interface			PC with instrument-
specific software.
Instrument has
touchscreen console.			PC with instrument-
specific software		
Amplification Reaction
Volume			10-30 μL in 96-well
Fast PCR plates			25-100 μL in 96-well
PCR plates		
Sample Preparation			No automated sample
processing instrument
offered in conjunction
with the QuantStudio™
Dx instrument.			Pairing with the
m2000sp instrument
provides automated
sample processing.		

--- Page 11 ---
J. Performance Characteristics:
All assay analytical and clinical testing was reviewed in the clearance of the
Molecular Direct C. difficile assay (k123998). This submission is linked to and
dependent upon the assay data presented there.
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Accuracy was assessed during the clearance of the Molecular Direct C.
difficile assay (k123998) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this
system.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Accuracy was assessed during the clearance of the Molecular Direct C.
difficile assay (k123998) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this
system.
c. Linearity:
Not applicable.
d. Carryover:
Carryover was assessed during the clearance of the Molecular Direct C.
difficile assay (k123998) and will be addressed for each assay to be run on this
system.
e. Interfering Substances:
Interfering Substances were assessed during the clearance of the Molecular
Direct C. difficile assay (k123998) and will be addressed for each assay to be
run on this system.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Thermal Cycler Performance Testing
Functional design verification testing demonstrated that the QuantStudio™ Dx
instrument design satisfies its design input requirements for thermal accuracy
and uniformity.
• Thermal block temperature accuracy is within ± 0.25°C from setpoint.
• Thermal block well temperature nonuniformity within ± 0.5°C range.
11

--- Page 12 ---
Optical Detection Verification
Performance requirements for optical detection are stated in the QuantStudio™
Dx instrument product requirements. These requirements include:
• Dynamic range sufficient to measure fluorescence of < 0.167 Ct from 10-
30 µL of selected 1-3 dyes per well at a temperature range of 45 to 95° C.
• The Instrument System demonstrated the detection of ≤ 10 copies of
starting template in ≤ 40 cycles in 10-30 µL in < 40 minutes in 100 µL
volume 96-well plates using a single-reporter.
• Linearity of Ct values are such that the square of the correlation
coefficient (r 2) exceeds 0.99 over the dye concentration range.
• Run-to-run signal variability is < 2.5% for the same instrument and < 5%
between instruments, with < 0.25 Ct SD < 0.167 from well to well.
This performance testing was executed by Life technologies, documented in their
verification and validation testing records.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
12