
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k123559
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification of previously cleared device to add wireless data management feature,
earphone jack and rearrangement of buttons on device.
C. Measurand:
Capillary whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, glucose oxidase
E. Applicant:
Biotest Medical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System, Model 6134
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345 Glucose Test System
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class II, Class I
3. Product code:
NBW - Blood glucose test system, over the counter
CGA - Glucose oxidase, glucose test system
JJX – Quality Control Material

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System (Model 6134)
The SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System is intended for use in the
quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood from the finger and
the forearm. It is intended for use by a single patient with diabetes mellitus at home as an
aid in monitoring the effectiveness of a diabetes control program, and should not be shared.
The SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System is not intended for the diagnosis
of or screening for diabetes mellitus, nor for use in neonates. The alternative site testing
(forearm) in this system can only be used during steady-state blood glucose conditions.
This system contains an audible readout function that provides an audible message of test
results for users. The SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System uses
cellular data transmission to send test results to a remote central data repository, Telemed-
Gluconet.
SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Test Strips
The SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Test Strips are to be used with the SOLUSmobile
Blood Glucose Meter to quantitatively measure glucose in fresh capillary whole blood
from the finger and the forearm. These test strips are intended for use by a single patient
with diabetes mellitus at home and should not be shared. They are not indicated for the
diagnosis of or screening for diabetes mellitus, nor for use in neonates. Forearm testing
should be done only during steady-state blood glucose conditions.
SOLUSmobile Control Solutions
The SOLUSmobile Control Solutions are for use with the SOLUSMobile Blood Glucose
Meter and SOLUSMobile Test Strips to check that the meters and test strips are working
together properly and that the test is performing correction. A control test that falls within
the acceptable range indicates the user technique is appropriate and the test strip and
meter are functioning properly.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
· It is not intended for the diagnosis of or screening for diabetes mellitus
· Not intended for use on neonates.
· For in vitro diagnostic use only, over-the-counter use, and prescription use.
· The device should not be used for patients who are dehydrated, in shock, critically
ill, or experiencing a hyperglycemic-hyperosmolar state.
· AST results should not be used for calibration of continuous glucose monitors
· AST results should not be used in insulin dose calculations

--- Page 3 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
SOLUSmobile Glucose Meter, Model 6134
I. Device Description:
The SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System (Model 6134) starter kit consists
of the following components: the SOLUSmobile Glucose Meter (Model 6134),
SOLUSmobile blood glucose test strips, User Guide, Quick Start Guide, Log Book,
Protective Case, control solution (low), sterile lancets, lancing device, package inserts for
test strips, control solution, and lancets/lancing device, battery charger, and charging cable.
High and Low levels of control solutions may be purchased separately. The control
solutions were previously cleared under k032029. The meter comes with a speaking
function with an earphone jack for audible test results, however, this device is not intended
for visually impaired users.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:1. Predicate device name(s):
SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management System (Model 6131)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k093764
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Predicate Device: Candidate Device:
SOLO V2 (K093764) SOLUSmobile (k123559)
Intended Use The SOLO V2 Blood Same
Glucose Management system
(Model 6131) is intended for
use in the quantitative
measurement of glucose in
fresh capillary whole blood
from the finger and the
forearm. It is intended for use
by healthcare professionals
and people with diabetes
mellitus at home and as an
aid in Management the
effectiveness of a diabetes
control program. The SOLO
V2 Blood Glucose
Management system (Model
6131) is not intended for the
diagnosis of or screening for
diabetes mellitus, nor for use
in neonates.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Intended Use	The SOLO V2 Blood
Glucose Management system
(Model 6131) is intended for
use in the quantitative
measurement of glucose in
fresh capillary whole blood
from the finger and the
forearm. It is intended for use
by healthcare professionals
and people with diabetes
mellitus at home and as an
aid in Management the
effectiveness of a diabetes
control program. The SOLO
V2 Blood Glucose
Management system (Model
6131) is not intended for the
diagnosis of or screening for
diabetes mellitus, nor for use
in neonates.	Same

--- Page 4 ---
The alternative site testing
(AST) in this system can only
be used during steady-state
blood glucose conditions.
This system contains
speaking function that
provides an audible message
of test results for users with
low vision.
Enzyme Glucose oxidase(Aspergillus Same
niger)
Temperature compensation Automatic compensation with Same
built-in thermister
Sample volume 0.7 uL Same
Measurement Range 20 - 600 mg/dL Same
Reaction time 6 seconds Same
10 ℃ to 40 ℃, relative
Operating condition Same
humidity 20%~80%
Memory feature 500 measurements with Same
day and time
Day average 7-, 14-, 28-, 60-, 90- day Same
average glucose result
Auto Shut Off Yes Same
Alarm Beeping sound and/or error Same
message in LCD display
Test strip calibration No code strip is needed. The Same
meter and the test strip should
have the same reference
number printed on the meter
box and on the test strip box
and vial. The meter also
displays the reference
number when inserting the
test strip.
Speaking (audible read out) Yes Yes
Function
Alternative Sites Forearm Same
Data download function. Yes, the meter can This feature is replaced by

[Table 1 on page 4]
	The alternative site testing
(AST) in this system can only
be used during steady-state
blood glucose conditions.
This system contains
speaking function that
provides an audible message
of test results for users with
low vision.	
Enzyme	Glucose oxidase(Aspergillus
niger)	Same
Temperature compensation	Automatic compensation with
built-in thermister	Same
Sample volume	0.7 uL	Same
Measurement Range	20 - 600 mg/dL	Same
Reaction time	6 seconds	Same
Operating condition	10 ℃ to 40 ℃, relative
humidity 20%~80%	Same
Memory feature	500 measurements with
day and time	Same
Day average	7-, 14-, 28-, 60-, 90- day
average glucose result	Same
Auto Shut Off	Yes	Same
Alarm	Beeping sound and/or error
message in LCD display	Same
Test strip calibration	No code strip is needed. The
meter and the test strip should
have the same reference
number printed on the meter
box and on the test strip box
and vial. The meter also
displays the reference
number when inserting the
test strip.	Same
Speaking (audible read out)
Function	Yes	Yes
Alternative Sites	Forearm	Same
Data download function.	Yes, the meter can	This feature is replaced by

--- Page 5 ---
download the test data to a automatic wireless data
PC. transmission capable of
sending the test results over
the wireless cellular network
to a Central Data Repository
at a preset time interval in a
day.
Power Alkaline AAA 1.5 V battery 3.7V/1000mAh
x 2 rechargeable Li- polymer
battery
Size(mm) 100(L)x55(W)x18(H) 119(L)x58.3(W)x20.8(H)
Weight (g) 90 g 115 g
Item Predicate: SuperCheck 1 Candidate: SOLUSmobile
Control Solution (k091815) Control solution (k123559)
Similarities
Number of Levels 2 Same
Matrix Buffer aqueous with Same
glucose, sodium benzoate,
viscosity modifier and non-
reactive ingredient
Storage Temperature 46 - 86°F (8 - 30°C) Same
Traceability Traceable to NIST SRM Same
917A Clinical Dextrose
Differences
Nomenclature Low, High Level I, Level III
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. ISO 11137-1:2006 Sterilization of Health Care Products—Radiation—Part 1: Requirements
for Development, Validation, and Routine control of a sterilization process for medical
devices
2. IEC/IEN 61010-1: 2001 Safety Requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement,
Control and Laboratory Use. General Requirements.
3. IEC/IEN 61010-2-101 Part 2-101: Particular Requirements for in vitro Diagnostic (IVD)
Medical Equipment.
4. IEC 61326-2-6:2012 Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control and Laboratory Use –
EMC Requirements – Part 2-6: Particular Requirements
5. ISO 14971: 2007 Medical Devices—Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices.
6. ISO 15197:2003 In vitro Diagnostic Test Systems – Requirements for Blood-Glucose
Monitoring Systems for Self-Testing in Managing diabetes mellitus.
7. BS EN ISO 13640:2002 Stability Testing of in vitro Diagnostic Reagents

[Table 1 on page 5]
	download the test data to a
PC.	automatic wireless data
transmission capable of
sending the test results over
the wireless cellular network
to a Central Data Repository
at a preset time interval in a
day.
Power	Alkaline AAA 1.5 V battery
x 2	3.7V/1000mAh
rechargeable Li- polymer
battery
Size(mm)	100(L)x55(W)x18(H)	119(L)x58.3(W)x20.8(H)
Weight (g)	90 g	115 g

[Table 2 on page 5]
Item	Predicate: SuperCheck 1
Control Solution (k091815)	Candidate: SOLUSmobile
Control solution (k123559)
Similarities		
Number of Levels	2	Same
Matrix	Buffer aqueous with
glucose, sodium benzoate,
viscosity modifier and non-
reactive ingredient	Same
Storage Temperature	46 - 86°F (8 - 30°C)	Same
Traceability	Traceable to NIST SRM
917A Clinical Dextrose	Same
Differences		
Nomenclature	Low, High	Level I, Level III

--- Page 6 ---
L. Test Principle:
The SOLUSmobile Glucose Meter utilizes a glucose oxidase enzyme as the standard dry
reagent assay for glucose in whole blood. This enzyme assay, with a redox chemical
“mediator” reaction, is used to generate an electrical current proportional to the glucose
concentration in the blood sample. The system is designed as an amperometric measurement
device using current generated for the redox reaction as the measureable response.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management system,
Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management system,
Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Stability of the SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Test Strips was previously established in the
SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
Value assignment and stability of the control solutions were previously established
under k032029.
d. Detection limit:
The measuring range of the SOLUSmobile Blood Glucose Management System
(Model 6134) is 20 to 600 mg/dL. This range was verified by the linearity study (see
section M.1.b of this decision summary).
e. Analytical specificity:
Interference study previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management
system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
Hematocrit Study:
Hematocrit study previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management
system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
Altitude Study:
The effect of varying altitudes previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose
Management system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
Humidity Study:
The effect of humidity previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management
system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.

--- Page 7 ---
Temperature Study:
The effect of temperature previously established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose
Management system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Comparison studies were performed with the YSI-2300 reference method. System
accuracy, lay-user performance evaluation, and a visually impaired user study was
previously performed and established in the SOLO V2 Blood Glucose Management
system, Model 6131 (k093764) submission.
b. Matrix
comparison:
Not
applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical
Sensitivity:
Not
applicable
b. Clinical
specificity:
Not
applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not
applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected plasma blood glucose values for normal, non-diabetic adults are as follows:
Before eating < 100

--- Page 8 ---
mg/dL Two hours after meals < 140
mg/dL
Reference: American Diabetes Association: Diabetes Care, January 2013, volume 36
(suppl. 1) S67-S74.
N. Instrument Name:
SOLUSmobile Glucose Meter, Model 6134
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Each test strip is single use and must be replaced with a new strip for additional readings.
The labeling and user guide specify the lancet and the strip are for single use only and
instruct the user to discard immediately after use.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?:
Yes X or No
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?:
Yes X or No ___
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes X or No

--- Page 9 ---
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied
directly to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
This device is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from the finger and
the forearm (AST) which can be applied directly to the test strip.
5. Calibration:
No coding. The meter and test strip have the same reference number printed on the
meter box and on the test strip box and vial.
6. Quality Control:
The sponsor provides two levels of controls (Level I and Level III) with this glucose
monitoring system. When the test strip is inserted into the meter, each control can be
measured by following the instructions for “Running a Control Solution Test” provided
in the User Manual for the meter. An acceptable range for each control level is printed on
the test strip vial label. The user is instructed to contact a customer assistance line during
operational hours or a healthcare provider outside hours of operation if the control results
fall outside these
ranges. Controls values and value ranges are assigned as described in section M.1.c of
this decision summary.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
1. Infection Control:
The device system is intended for single-patient use only. Disinfection efficacy studies were
performed on the material comprising the meter and lancing device by an outside
commercial testing demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the
chosen disinfectant, Clorox® Bleach Germicidal Wipes (EPA Reg No: 67619-12).
Robustness studies were also performed by the sponsor demonstrating that there was no a
change in performance or external materials of the meter and lancing device after 11,000
cleaning and 11,000 disinfection cycles, using Clorox® Bleach Germicidal Wipes to
simulate 3 years of use by layusers. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the
validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.
2. Readability:
A Flesch-Kincaid analysis was conducted and the resulting grade level at which the device
labeling is written is as follows:
Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level
Labeling Score
User’s Manual 7.8
Test Strip Inserts 7.6

[Table 1 on page 9]
Labeling	Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level
Score
User’s Manual	7.8
Test Strip Inserts	7.6

--- Page 10 ---
Control Solution Inserts 7.3
3. EMC:
EMC testing was evaluated and certified by MET Laboratories, Inc. and Verification of
Compliance certificates provided.
4. Usability Studies:
A cellular functions usability study was performed at three sites using 60 total participants.
The purpose of the study was to demonstrate that the intended use population can easily use
the new features of this meter (automatic wireless data transmission feature, addition of an
airplane mode button, addition of a backlight, addition of an ear phone jack, and a
rearrangement of control button). Each participant could read and understand English and
the participant ages ranged from 21 to 63. Each participant completed the usability test
utilizing only the User’s Guide and all participants indicated that the meter was easy to use.
An additional usability study was conducted using 20 participants, ages ranging from 22 –
54,. All of the participants had prior experiences with using a computer. The participants
were given a user’s guide written in English and were allowed to ask customer service
representatives if they had any questions. In this study, the voice level feature was
evaluated, along with the earphone jack accessory in which the audible output was evaluated
as well. Each user tested the airplane mode feature and at the end of the study each
participant completed a questionnaire to evaluate the ease of use of the SOLUSmobile meter.
All participants indicated that the meter was easy to use.
5. Data Transmission:
The effectiveness and reliability of the data transmission (manual and automatic)
functions were evaluated through memory storage and synchronization testing.
In the memory storage study, the accuracy of transmission of 500 glucose measurements
(memory capacity of meter which includes day and time of glucose measurement) from
the meter to the central data repository was evaluated on two separate occasions. The
results of the memory storage study demonstrated accurate and reliable transmission of
every glucose measurement from the meter to the central data repository.
In the synchronization study, the automatic transmission of glucose measurements was
evaluated as a part of the cellular functions usability study. Each participant synchronized
and transmitted glucose test results, in three replicates, from their meter to the central data
repository. The results of the study demonstrated accurate and reliable transmission of
every glucose measurement from the meter to the central data repository.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.

[Table 1 on page 10]
Control Solution Inserts	7.3