
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIVD Review Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K130535
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class
II, Class III or Reserved Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary) for the iBGStar Blood Glucose Monitoring System, iBGStar Diabetes
Manager Application:
1. The name and 510(k) number of Agamatrix Inc.'s previously cleared device, iBGStar Blood Glucose
Monitoring System, iBGStar Diabetes Manager Application, cleared under k103544.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION (S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for inclusion of the iPhone 5 and iPod touch 5 as products that can be used with the
iBGStar Diabetes Manager Application, which is an optional accessory to the iBGStar Blood Glucose
Monitoring System.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The validation protocols were adequate to address the identified causes of hazards identified in the Risk
analysis (FMEA). The device system is intended for single-patient use only. Disinfection efficacy studies
were performed on the materials comprising the meter and lancing device by an outside commercial
testing demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the chosen disinfectant, PDI®
Super Sani-Cloth® Germicidal Disposable Wipes with (EPA Registration # 9480-4). Robustness studies
were also performed by the sponsor demonstrating that there was no change in performance or external
materials of the meter and lancing device after 260 cleanings and 260 disinfection steps with the PDI®
Super Sani-Cloth® Germicidal Disposable Wipes. The robustness studies were designed to simulate 5
years of single-patient use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning
and disinfection procedures.