
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K130794
B. Purpose for Submission:
The CELL TRACKS ANALYZER II® System Software is being modified from the current
version (2.5.1) to Version 2.6.0 and a Remote Review Workstation is available that supports
connections to the customer Local Area Network (LAN) to provide the following network-
based features: Remote Review of Results, Archive Results and Export reports to Network
File Share, and Transfer Results to the Laboratory Information System (LIS). The
application software was modified and new software modules were created to implement the
networking capability.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Veridex, LLC
CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
In vitro diagnostic device to aid in the enumeration of immunomagnetically selected and
fluorescently identified circulating tumor cells of epithelial origin in whole blood for
prediction of cancer progression and survival.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® is a semi-automated fluorescence microscope,
consisting of the analyzer, a dedicated computer with CELLTRACKS® software,
monitor, keyboard, mouse and uninterruptible power supply (UPS). The system also
supports an optional Remote Review Workstation, which consists of a dedicated
computer with CELLTRACKS® software, monitor, keyboard and mouse. Use of this
product requires training and should be used under the supervision of laboratory
management.
The CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® is for analysis of rare cells that are isolated from
biological fluids including whole blood. It is used in conjunction with the
CELLTRACKS® AUTOPREP® System, which automates and standardizes the sample
preparation with specific reagent kits. The optional Remote Review Workstation
1

--- Page 2 ---
provides the capability to review images and report results remotely.
2. Principles of Operation:
The CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® is used in conjunction with the CELLTRACKS®
AUTOPREP® System and reagent kits that contain ferrofluid-based capture reagent and
immunofluorescent reagents for detection and characterization of the captured cells. The
ferrofluid reagent consists of particles with a magnetic core surrounded by a polymeric
layer coated with antibodies that target the cells of interest. After immunomagnetic
capture and enrichment, fluorescent reagents are added for identification and enumeration
of the target cells.
The processed reagent/sample mixture is dispensed by the CELLTRACKS®
AUTOPREP® System into a cartridge that is inserted into a MAGNEST® Cartridge
Holder. The strong magnetic field of the MAGNEST® Cartridge Holder causes the
magnetically-labeled target cells to move to the surface of the cartridge. The
CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® scans the entire surface of the cartridge with a series of
fluorescence filters that are defined for a given assay. Cell images from each filter are
presented in a gallery format for final cell classification by the operator.
3. Modes of Operation:
Semi-automated, one-at-a-time analysis.
4. Specimen Identification:
The CELLTRACKS® AUTOPREP® System records the associated sample, patient,
reagent, and test information to the MAGNEST® Data Button, which is an EEPROM
storage device embedded on the bottom of the MAGNEST® Cartridge Holder. The Data
Button is then read on the CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® when the MAGNEST®
Cartridge is loaded and the information is transferred to the CELLTRACKS
ANALYZER II® database. This information tracks with the sample and is included in
any subsequent reports.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The processed reagent/sample mixture is dispensed by the CELLTRACKS®
AUTOPREP® System into a sample cartridge that is inserted into a MAGNEST®
Cartridge Holder. The MAGNEST® Cartridge Holder is loaded onto the sample stage of
the CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® manually and then the surface of the sample
cartridge is automatically scanned. The users then manually review the images and
interpret the results. When the scan is complete, the system ejects the stage, and unlocks
the door. The operator removes the MAGNEST® Cartridge Holder.
2

--- Page 3 ---
6. Calibration:
The analyzer is calibrated using the CELLTRACKS® System Verification Cartridge
which contains a strip of fluorescent material. System verification checks the optical
performance and chamber “skew” which ensures proper scanning. There is no
recognized reference material or method.
7. Quality Control:
For the circulating tumor cell assay the CELLSEARCH® Circulating Tumor Cell
Control Kit should be used following the Instructions for Use of the CELLSEARCH®
Circulating Tumor Cell Control Kit.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes X or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.6020, Immunomagnetic circulating cancer cell selection and enumeration
system.
2. Classification:
II
3 Product code:
NQI, System, immunomagnetic, circulating cancer cell, enumeration
4. Panel:
Pathology (88)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® is a semi-automated fluorescence microscope
used to enumerate fluorescently labeled cells that are immunomagnetically selected and
aligned. This product is for in vitro diagnostic use when used in tandem with specimen
3

--- Page 4 ---
preparation equipment and reagents that are legally marketed for in vitro diagnostic use
with this device.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
CELLTRACKS ANALYZER II® System, k113181
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Current
Modified CELLTRACKS
CELLTRACKS
Item ANALYZER II®
ANALYZER II®
v2.6.0
v2.5.1 (k113181)
The CELLTRACKS
ANALYZER II® is a semi-
automated fluorescence
microscope used to enumerate
fluorescently labeled cells that
are immunomagnetically
Indications for Use selected and aligned. This Same
product is for in vitro diagnostic
use when used in tandem with
specimen preparation equipment
and reagents that are legally
marketed for in vitro diagnostic
use with this device.
Operating System Debian Linux 5 Same
Image Acquisition
- Same
Algorithms
Analysis Algorithms - Same
Cell Selection Algorithms - Same
Sample Processed via Magnest Same
Available Channels for
4 Same
Analysis
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
							Current	
				Modified CELLTRACKS				
							CELLTRACKS	
	Item			ANALYZER II®				
							ANALYZER II®	
				v2.6.0				
							v2.5.1 (k113181)	
								
Indications for Use			The CELLTRACKS
ANALYZER II® is a semi-
automated fluorescence
microscope used to enumerate
fluorescently labeled cells that
are immunomagnetically
selected and aligned. This
product is for in vitro diagnostic
use when used in tandem with
specimen preparation equipment
and reagents that are legally
marketed for in vitro diagnostic
use with this device.			Same		
Operating System			Debian Linux 5			Same		
Image Acquisition
Algorithms			-			Same		
Analysis Algorithms			-			Same		
Cell Selection Algorithms			-			Same		
Sample			Processed via Magnest			Same		
Available Channels for
Analysis			4			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Software Version Software version 2.6.0 Software version 2.5.1
Remote Review
Included Not included
Workstation PC
Networking:
· Remote Review of
Results
· Archive Results to a
Network File Share Included Not included
· Export Report or Images
to Network File Share
· Transfer Results to LIS
Interface
Manual (all database tables),
System Data Backup and option for an Automatic Backup Manual (all database
Recovery (includes database tables plus in- tables)
process results)
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Not applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Software Version			Software version 2.6.0			Software version 2.5.1		
Remote Review
Workstation PC			Included			Not included		
Networking:
· Remote Review of
Results
· Archive Results to a
Network File Share
· Export Report or Images
to Network File Share
· Transfer Results to LIS
Interface			Included			Not included		
System Data Backup and
Recovery			Manual (all database tables),
option for an Automatic Backup
(includes database tables plus in-
process results)			Manual (all database
tables)		

--- Page 6 ---
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Different levels of software testing, including Development Testing, Verification Testing
and Validation Testing, were performed to verify and validate the software changes.
Testing documentation was provided for the Verification Testing and the Validation
Testing.
The Verification Testing included Software Function Testing, DTR (Development Track
Record) Testing, Regression Testing, Stress Testing and Mater Disk Testing. The
Software Function Testing was performed on the CellTracks Analyzer II and the Remote
Review Station, as well as the interaction of the two with each other, to verify that
adequate software functions were implemented. The DTR Testing was performed to test
the effectiveness of corrections implemented for software anomalies uncovered during
the development and testing process. The purpose of the Stress Testing was to create
series of test cases that vary normal interactions of the CellTracks Analyzer II, Remote
Review Station, Laboratory Information System and Networking to cause stress on the
software application. The resulting set of tests showed that the interaction of various
software features does not cause unexpected performance issues. The Master Disk
Testing was performed on the final software to verify that the software installed properly
on both the CellTracks Analyzer II and the Remote Review Station. All verification
activities were considered as executed and passed for both the CellTracks Analyzer II and
the Remote Review Station.
The Validation Testing was performed by mimicking user-like operation of the
instrument. System Verification Cartridge (SVC), Fluorescent Magnetic Beads and
Control samples were scanned with the predicate software (v2.5.1) and with the new
device software (v2.6.0) over the course of 4 days to confirm that performance is
equivalent across software versions. One CELLTRACKS Analyzer II along with a Remote
Review Station was used for this testing. The following operations were performed and
results were compared between software versions.
· SVC cartridges were scanned 6 times with the old and new software to demonstrate
that the six scan locations on the cartridge passed the instrument check values (a
pass/fail result). Additional SVC scans were performed across days since it is a
daily instrument check that must pass prior to sample or control scanning.
· Sample cartridges were filled with fluorescent magnetic beads and scanned as
patient samples. One bead control was scanned 16 times (across 2 days) with each
version of software. The counts were compared across software versions.
· Sixteen control cells processed on the CELLTRACKS® AUTOPREP® System
were scanned across the two versions of software (across 2 days). Eight samples
were scanned first with v2.5.1 and re-scanned on v2.6.0. Another set of eight were
scanned first with v2.6.0 and re-scanned with v2.5.1. The high and low control
counts were compared across software versions.
· Gallery review printouts of control cells and beads for a total of 4 controls samples
(8 printouts) and 4 bead samples (8 printouts) from the CellTracks Analyzer II and
the RRW matched identically showing that the images displayed are the same on
both instruments.
6

--- Page 7 ---
· All control and bead sample results were archived per CellTracks Analyzer II User
Guide for the v2.6.0 and per CellTracks Analyzer II User Guide for the v2.5.1.
The System log files and SVC log files were exported from the v2.6.0 hard drive
and from the v2.5.1 hard drive. The System Log Files were inspected for Error
Codes.
All system validation test results met the acceptance criteria. No error codes were posted
during the testing.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7