
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k130657
B. Purpose for Submission:
New diabetes data management software accessory for use with GlucoDr
Supersensor (k050985), GlucoDr Plus (k082328), and GlucoDr auto (k083628)
blood glucose meters.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
All Medicus Co., Ltd.
LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes Management Software
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes Management Software is an optional accessory for
use with compatible All Medicus brand blood glucose meters with data
management capabilities. The subject device consists of a USB data transfer
cable and software. The system allows the users to download blood glucose
results from their glucose meter to their computer, maintain a history of their
glucose test results, and convert them into graphs, charts and reports. The
software does not recommend any medical treatment or medication dosage
level.
2. Principles of Operation:
The LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes Management Software is an accessory to
compatible All Medicus meters, which use specific test principles.
Operating System requirements for the LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes
Management Software are as follows: Windows XP, Windows Vista or
Windows 7, 32 bit. The system requirements are as follows: (1)
Microsoft Windows personal computer, (2) video monitor and adapter
with at least 800 x 600 pixels and 256 colors, (3) USB port, (4) CD-
ROM drive, (5) Pentium 4 2.4 GHz processor, (6) 256 MB minimum of
free RAM, and (7) 300~500 MB minimum of free hard disk space before
installation, 100MB after installation.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
The software provides the following features for the user:
· Transfers data from compatible All Medicus glucose meters to LinkDr
2.0 Diabetes Management Software via USB cable.
· Displays tables and charts for blood glucose data of registered
members.
· Prompts registered members to login to access the software.
· Displays a preview page for printing the current page.
· Displays daily glucose readings in the Log book, meal block table and
trend graph.
· Graphically displays the number of glucose values that fall above,
below and within a specified target range.
· Displays the statistics report including trend chart and histogram.
· Calculates glucose averages and standard deviations in a statics table.
· Provides options to manage accounts of registered members.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission: Yes or No X .
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Data transmission from glucose meters using capillary whole blood samples
6. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed the applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
Documentation: Yes X or No

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
F. Regulatory Information:
Device Name Product Code Classification Regulation Panel
Glucose Test NBW: Blood Class II 21 CFR § Clinical
System Glucose Test 862.1345 Chemistry
System, Over- (75)
the- Counter
Calculator/Data JQP: Calculator/ Class I 21 CFR § Clinical
Processing Module Data Processing 862.2100 Chemistry
for Clinical Use Module for Clinical (75)
Use
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes Management Software is a PC-based software
intended for use in home and professional settings to help people with
diabetes and their healthcare professionals in the review, analysis and
evaluation of glucose test results for effective diabetes management. It is
intended for use as an accessory to compatible All Medicus brand blood
glucose monitoring systems such as the GlucoDr Supersensor blood glucose
meter, GlucoDr Plus blood glucose meter and GlucoDr auto blood glucose
meter.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s): Over-the-counter use
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
LifeScan IN TOUCH® Diabetes Management Software (k984527)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities and Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate
Device
LinkDr 2.0 Data Management LifeScan IN
Software TOUCH®
Diabetes
Management
Software
(k984527)

[Table 1 on page 3]
Device Name	Product Code	Classification	Regulation	Panel
Glucose Test
System	NBW: Blood
Glucose Test
System, Over-
the- Counter	Class II	21 CFR §
862.1345	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)
Calculator/Data
Processing Module
for Clinical Use	JQP: Calculator/
Data Processing
Module for Clinical
Use	Class I	21 CFR §
862.2100	Clinical
Chemistry
(75)

[Table 2 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences		
Item	Candidate Device	Predicate
Device
	LinkDr 2.0 Data Management
Software	LifeScan IN
TOUCH®
Diabetes
Management
Software
(k984527)

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
Intended Use The LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes Same
Management Software is a PC-
based software intended for use in
home and professional settings to
help people with diabetes and their
healthcare professionals in the
review, analysis and evaluation of
glucose test results for effective
diabetes management. It is
intended for use as an accessory to
compatible All Medicus brand
blood glucose monitoring systems
such as the GlucoDr Supersensor
blood glucose meter, GlucoDr Plus
blood glucose meter and GlucoDr
auto blood glucose meter.
Over-the-Counter Yes Same
Accessory to Yes Same
Glucose meter
Intended user Home Users/HCPs, Same
single or multiple users
Data Use Data transferred from device Same
cannot be changed or modified;
manually entered data can be
deleted or modified
Setting target Yes Same
ranges
Connectivity to USB Cable Serial Cable
Meter
Manual Data Yes Same
Entry
Logbook Yes Same
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 14971 Medical Devices – Applications of Risk Management to Medical
Devices 2007
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, are presented in
the specific glucose clearances under k050985, k082328, and k083628.
· Analytical Performance:
a) Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b) Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).

[Table 1 on page 4]
Intended Use	The LinkDr 2.0 Diabetes
Management Software is a PC-
based software intended for use in
home and professional settings to
help people with diabetes and their
healthcare professionals in the
review, analysis and evaluation of
glucose test results for effective
diabetes management. It is
intended for use as an accessory to
compatible All Medicus brand
blood glucose monitoring systems
such as the GlucoDr Supersensor
blood glucose meter, GlucoDr Plus
blood glucose meter and GlucoDr
auto blood glucose meter.	Same
Over-the-Counter	Yes	Same
Accessory to
Glucose meter	Yes	Same
Intended user	Home Users/HCPs,
single or multiple users	Same
Data Use	Data transferred from device
cannot be changed or modified;
manually entered data can be
deleted or modified	Same
Setting target
ranges	Yes	Same
Connectivity to
Meter	USB Cable	Serial Cable
Manual Data
Entry	Yes	Same
Logbook	Yes	Same

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
c) Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d) Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e) Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
a) A usability study was performed with One hundred (100) lay and
professional users with varying demographic characteristics (age,
sex, and education level). The intent of the study was to verify
software ease of use and label comprehension. Study participants
also completed a questionnaire in response to whether the software,
USB cable, and labeling are easy to use. The sponsor concluded that
100% of users were either somewhat satisfied or very satisfied with
the software, USB cable, and user manual.
b) In an additional usability study with 20 lay users and 20 professional
users, of various age, gender, educational background, and computer
experience, software installation, connectivity and data transmission
as intended to be used, was assessed and verified to achieve 100%
accuracy for data transmission.
c) Bench Testing was performed on data from three meters for each
meter type to test meter memory rollover and data transmission,
this included full memory data transmission, plus additional data to
validate correct data rollover in the app. All data fields were 100%
accurate.
e) The following documentation related to the software was reviewed
and found to be acceptable: level of concern, software description,
device hazard analysis, software requirements specifications,
architecture design chart, software design specification, traceability
analysis, software development environment description, verification
and validation testing, and revision level history. The sponsor reports
that no unresolved anomalies are known to exist in the release version
of the software.
f) The sponsor provided the results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability
study which indicated a Grade Level Score of 7.3 for the LinkDr 2.0
Diabetes Management Software User Manual.
g) The sponsors provided the appropriate documentation certifying
that electromagnetic testing (EMC) had been performed and the
GP550 PC-Link Adaptor were found compliant (EN 61010-1, EN
61326-1).

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.