
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCEDETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k130265
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification of the Contour Next EZ Blood Glucose Meter with three changes made to the
glucose measuring algorithm to enhance low temperature measurements, allow blood re-
application, and enhance moisture detection.
C. Measurand:
Glucose in capillary whole blood from fingertip.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative amperometric assay (FAD-glucose dehydrogenase)
E. Applicant:
Bayer Health Care LLC, Diabetes Care
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CONTOUR® NEXT EZ Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345 Glucose Test System
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
LFR - Glucose dehydrogenase, glucose
NBW - Blood glucose test system, Over-the-Counter
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry - 75
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Refer to indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The CONTOUR® NEXT EZ blood glucose monitoring system is an over the counter
(OTC) device utilized for self-testing by persons with diabetes at home for the
quantitative measurement of glucose in whole blood, is for single-patient use only, and
should not be shared.
The CONTOUR® NEXT EZ blood glucose monitoring system is indicated for use with
fresh fingertip capillary whole blood samples. The clinical utility of this device is to aid
in monitoring the effectiveness of your diabetes control program.
The CONTOUR® NEXT EZ blood glucose monitoring system is not intended for the
diagnosis of or screening for diabetes mellitus and is not intended for use on neonates.
The CONTOUR® NEXT test strips are intended for self-testing by persons with
diabetes for the quantitative measurement of glucose in whole blood samples from 20 to
600 mg/dL.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic use only.
For over the counter use.
Not for neonatal use.
Not for use in Critically Ill
Not for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus.
Single-patient use systems are for use on single patients only and should not be shared.
The following Contraindications statement is included in the labeling:
Capillary blood glucose testing may not be clinically appropriate for persons with reduced
peripheral blood flow. Shock, severe hypotension and severe dehydration are examples of
clinical conditions that may adversely affect the measurement of glucose in peripheral
blood.
4. Special instrument requirements:
CONTOUR® NEXT EZ Blood Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
The CONTOUR®NEXT EZ Blood Glucose Meter consists of a small handheld blood glucose
meter that utilizes dry reagent test strips for the measurement of glucose in capillary whole
blood by persons with diabetes. The modified device is capable of detecting low sample when
sensor is either severely under-filled (less than half-full) or moderately under-filled (more
than half-full), and allowing the user to re-apply more blood onto the same strip within 20
seconds.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Liquid CONTOUR®NEXT Control Solution (level 1 and 2) and the CONTOUR®NEXT Test
Strips were cleared under k111268. Contour®NEXT level 2 control solution is included in the
kit.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name:
CONTOUR®NEXT EZ Blood Glucose Monitoring System)
2. Predicate 510(k) number:
K111268
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item CONTOUR® NEXT EZ CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Predicate Device System; Modified Device
(k111268) (k130265)
Similarities with Predicate
Intended Use Intended to be used for Same
quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary
whole blood as an aid to
monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control in people
with diabetes.
Detection method Quantitative amperometric Same
assay (FAD-glucose
dehydrogenase)
Sample type Capillary whole blood Same
Sample sites Fingertip Same
Test Strip CONTOUR®NEXT Test Same
Strips
Control Solution CONTOUR®NEXT Control Same
Solutions (Level 1 and 2)
Test Strip Underfilled YYes Same
Detection e
Calibration sA utocoding (no coding for Same
users)
Measurement Range 20-600 mg/dL Same
Hematocrit Range 15-65% Same
Blood Sample Volume 0.6 uL Same
Reaction Time 5 seconds Same
Operating Conditions 41-113°F / 10-93% RH Same
Battery Type Two 3-volt lithium batteries Same
(CR2032 or DL2032)
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item	CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Predicate Device
(k111268)	CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Modified Device
(k130265)
Similarities with Predicate		
Intended Use	Intended to be used for
quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary
whole blood as an aid to
monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control in people
with diabetes.	Same
Detection method	Quantitative amperometric
assay (FAD-glucose
dehydrogenase)	Same
Sample type	Capillary whole blood	Same
Sample sites	Fingertip	Same
Test Strip	CONTOUR®NEXT Test
Strips	Same
Control Solution	CONTOUR®NEXT Control
Solutions (Level 1 and 2)	Same
Test Strip Underfilled
Detection	YYes
e	Same
Calibration	sA utocoding (no coding for
users)	Same
Measurement Range	20-600 mg/dL	Same
Hematocrit Range	15-65%	Same
Blood Sample Volume	0.6 uL	Same
Reaction Time	5 seconds	Same
Operating Conditions	41-113°F / 10-93% RH	Same
Battery Type	Two 3-volt lithium batteries
(CR2032 or DL2032)	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Illuminated Strip Port No Same
Operational Buttons Two button - choice selection Same
and menu/power button
Sound A beep sounds when the meter Same
is turned on, a test strip is
inserted, when a test strip is
filled with blood, or when a
test result appears on the
display. Two beeps sound
when the meter turns off or to
indicate an error. Twenty
beeps sound for a
programmed reminder.
Meter life Five years Same
Validated Product Used Clorox Germicidal wipes Same
for Cleaning &
Disinfection
Test Reminder Yes Same
Display (technology) Segmented (LCD), Same
Alphanumeric characters and
icons
Display visibility Daylight only Same
Error Message Displays No, but error codes and Same
symbols are displayed and
their meanings are provided in
the system’s User Guide
Communication Link to Via serial to USB cable Same
Computer
Test Results in Memory 480 Results Same
Meter Materials Case Top/Bottom: ABS Same
Buttons: AS
Before and After Meal Yes, when used in advanced Same
Marker setting
Differences from Predicate
Characteristic CONTOUR® NEXT EZ CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Predicate System; Modified Device
(k111268) (k130265)
Glucose Calculation No Yes
Algorithm that ensures
consistent performance at
low temperatures
(<15ºC)
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Illuminated Strip Port	No	Same
Operational Buttons	Two button - choice selection
and menu/power button	Same
Sound	A beep sounds when the meter
is turned on, a test strip is
inserted, when a test strip is
filled with blood, or when a
test result appears on the
display. Two beeps sound
when the meter turns off or to
indicate an error. Twenty
beeps sound for a
programmed reminder.	Same
Meter life	Five years	Same
Validated Product Used
for Cleaning &
Disinfection	Clorox Germicidal wipes	Same
Test Reminder	Yes	Same
Display (technology)	Segmented (LCD),
Alphanumeric characters and
icons	Same
Display visibility	Daylight only	Same
Error Message Displays	No, but error codes and
symbols are displayed and
their meanings are provided in
the system’s User Guide	Same
Communication Link to
Computer	Via serial to USB cable	Same
Test Results in Memory	480 Results	Same
Meter Materials	Case Top/Bottom: ABS
Buttons: AS	Same
Before and After Meal
Marker	Yes, when used in advanced
setting	Same

[Table 2 on page 4]
Characteristic	CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Predicate
(k111268)	CONTOUR® NEXT EZ
Blood Glucose Monitoring
System; Modified Device
(k130265)
Glucose Calculation
Algorithm that ensures
consistent performance at
low temperatures
(<15ºC)	No	Yes

--- Page 5 ---
Improved blood detection No Yes
algorithm to allow blood
reapplication when sensor
is either severely under-
filled (less than half-full)
or moderately under-filled
(more than half-full)
Error detection algorithm No Yes
to detect test strips that
have been damaged by
exposure to excessive
moisture
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 15197: 1n vitro diagnostic test systems - Requirements for blood-glucose monitoring
systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus.
ISO 14971: Medical Devices - Application of risk management to devices.
IEC 61326-1, IEC 61326-2-6: Electrical equipment for measurement, control and laboratory
use - EMC requirements.
IEC 61010-1, IEC 61010-2-101: Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement,
control and laboratory use.
L. Test Principle:
CONTOUR NEXT EZ blood glucose test is based on measurement of electrical current
caused by the reaction of the glucose with the reagents on the electrode of the strip. The
blood sample is drawn into the tip of the test strip through capillary action. Glucose in the
sample reacts with FAD glucose dehydrogenase (FAD-GDH) and the mediator. Electrons
are generated, producing a current that is proportional to the glucose in the sample. After
the reaction time, the glucose concentration in the sample is displayed. No calculation is
required.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously cleared under k111268.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Previously cleared under k111268.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Previously cleared under k111268.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Improved blood detection
algorithm to allow blood
reapplication when sensor
is either severely under-
filled (less than half-full)
or moderately under-filled
(more than half-full)	No	Yes
Error detection algorithm
to detect test strips that
have been damaged by
exposure to excessive
moisture	No	Yes

--- Page 6 ---
d. Detection limit:
Previously cleared under k111268.
e. Analytical specificity:
Previously cleared under k111268.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Previously cleared under k111268.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The product labeling contains the following statement: “Non diabetic plasma glucose
concentrations should be <100 mg/dL in the fasting state and <140 mg/dL in the post-
prandial state.* You should consult with your healthcare professional for glucose values
specific to your needs.”
*Reference: American Diabetes Association: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes – 2013.
Diabetes Care 2013; volume 36, supplement 1: S13.
N. Instrument Name:
CONTOUR NEXT EZ glucose meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Amperometric.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
6

--- Page 7 ---
Yes X or No
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?:
Yes or No X___
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes X or No_
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied directly
to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
This device is intended for use with fingertip capillary whole blood which is applied
directly to the test strip.
5. Calibration:
The device is factory calibrated and requires no additional calibration by the user.
6. Quality Control:
The sponsor recommends the use of Level 1 and Level 2 CONTOUR NEXT control
solutions with this system. Control solution level 2 is included in the kit. These controls
can be purchased using the contact information provided in the user manual. When the test
strip is inserted into the glucose meter, control material can be measured by following the
instructions for “Control Solution Testing” provided in the user guide for the meter. The
CONTOUR NEXT EZ meter will automatically recognize and mark the control result.
Control results will not be included in blood glucose averages.
P. The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
The studies performed to mitigate the risks associated with the three modifications to the
glucose measuring algorithm, support the algorithm changes.
Other:
1) Altitude Study:
Previously cleared under k111268.
2) Sample Volume
Previously cleared under k111268.
3) Usability Study
Previously cleared under k111268.
4) Readability Assessment
Previously cleared under k111268.
7

--- Page 8 ---
5) Customer Service Telephone Number
Customer service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The toll free phone number
is 1-800-348-8100 for customer support.
6) EMC Testing
Previously cleared under k111268.
7) Cleaning and Disinfection
Previously cleared under k111268.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
There were no labeling changes made to all the labeling cleared under k111268.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8