
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COM BINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k130696
B. Purpose for Submission:
To add two additional names to their cleared system: CareSens N LINK Blood
Glucose Monitoring System and, CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring
System. To add validated cleaning and disinfection instructions for multiple-patient
use to the labeling, change the shape of the meters’ housing, change the software
(test result average range and memory functions), and the battery type as compared to
the previously cleared CareSens N Blood Glucose Monitoring System (k083468).
C. Measurand:
Capillary whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative Amperometric assay (Glucose oxidase)
E. Applicant:
i-Sens, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345, Glucose test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NBW, System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over The Counter
CGA, Glucose Oxidase, Glucose
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for the
quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood samples
drawn from the fingertips and alternative sites such as the forearm, palm, thigh,
and calf. Alternative site testing should be used only during steady-state blood
glucose conditions. The system is intended for self-testing outside the body (in
vitro) by people with diabetes at home as an aid to monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control. The system is intended to be used by a single person and should
not be shared. It is not intended for use on neonates and is not for the diagnosis or
screening of diabetes.
The CareSens N Single Blood Glucose Test Strips are for use with the
CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Meter to quantitatively measure glucose in
fresh capillary whole blood samples drawn from the fingertips and alternative
sites.
The CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended
for the quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood
samples drawn from the fingertips and alternative sites such as the forearm, palm,
thigh, and calf. Alternative site testing should be used only during steady-state
blood glucose conditions. The system is intended for use outside the body (in
vitro) and is intended for multiple-patient use in professional healthcare settings
as an aid to monitor the effectiveness of diabetes control. The system is only used
with auto-disabling, single use lancing device. It is not intended for use on
neonates and is not for the diagnosis or screening of diabetes.
The CareSens N Multi Blood Glucose Test Strips are for use with the CareSens
N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Meter to quantitatively measure glucose in fresh
capillary whole blood samples drawn from the fingertips and alternative sites.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For over-the-counter use
·
Not for neonatal use
·
Not for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus
·
Not for use on critically ill patients, patients in shock, dehydrated patients or
·
hyper-osmolar patients
Alternative site testing (AST) testing should only be done during steady-state
·
times (when glucose is not changing rapidly).
AST should not be used to calibrate continuous glucose monitors (CGMs).
·
AST should not be used for insulin dose calculations.
·
2

--- Page 3 ---
Use only auto-disabling, single-use lancing device with multiple-patient use
·
system.
Lancing devices used in a single patient use system should not be shared.
·
4. Special instrument requirements:
CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System
I. Device Description:
The CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring System or the CareSens N LINK
Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System each consists of a CareSens N LINK Blood
Glucose meter, CareSens N Single Blood Glucose Test Strips (sold separately), and
CareSens Control Solutions (sold separately), a user manual, logbook, carrying case,
and two batteries). The CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring System has a
lancing device, 10 lancets, and a quick reference guide.
Each test strip contains the following reagent compositions: glucose oxidase (20.09 %
sourced from Aspergillus niger.); Hexammineruthenium (III) Chloride (45.7 µg), and
other non-reactive ingredients (1.6 µg).
CarSens controls were previously cleared (k083468). Each box of control solutions
contains one vial of each aqueous control solution, each: Control A, and Control B.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
CarSens N Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate K number(s):
k083468
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences of the Blood Glucose System
Candidate Device
CareSens N Blood Glucose CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose
Item Monitoring System, Monitoring System and CareSens
(k083468) N LINK Multi Blood Glucose
Monitoring System
Similarities
It is intended to be used for
quantitative measurement of
Intended
glucose in fresh capillary whole
Use/Indications for Same
blood as an aid to monitor the
Use
effectiveness of diabetes control
in people with diabetes.
Detection method Amperometry Same
Enzyme Glucose Oxidase Same
Calibration Coding No coding Same
Test range 20-600 mg/dL Same
Hematocrit range 20-60% Same
Sample type Capillary whole blood Same
Fingertip, Palm, forearm, calf
Sample sites Same
and thigh.
Sample volume 0.5 µL Same
Sample test time 5 seconds Same
Memory Capacity 250 Tests 500 Tests
Differences
Test Average
14 days 1, 7, 14, 30, and 90 days
range
Two 3.0 V CR2032 lithium Two 1.5 V AAA alkaline
Battery Type
batteries batteries
Test strip ejector No Yes
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 15197: In vitro diagnostic test systems - Requirements for blood-glucose
·
monitoring systems for self-testing in managing diabetes mellitus.
EC 61326-2-6: Electrical equipment for measurement, control and laboratory use
·
– EMC requirements – Part 2-6: Particular requirements – In vitro diagnostics
(IVD) medical equipment
IEC 61010-2-101: Safety requirements for electrical euiptment for measurement,
·
control and laboratory use – Part 2-101: Particular requirements for in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) medical equiptment
PCC Part 15C rule: Radio Frequency Devices, Subpart C – Intentional Radiators
·
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities and Differences of the Blood Glucose System								
							Candidate Device	
				CareSens N Blood Glucose			CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose	
	Item			Monitoring System,			Monitoring System and CareSens	
				(k083468)			N LINK Multi Blood Glucose	
							Monitoring System	
Similarities								
Intended
Use/Indications for
Use			It is intended to be used for
quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary whole
blood as an aid to monitor the
effectiveness of diabetes control
in people with diabetes.			Same		
Detection method			Amperometry			Same		
Enzyme			Glucose Oxidase			Same		
Calibration Coding			No coding			Same		
Test range			20-600 mg/dL			Same		
Hematocrit range			20-60%			Same		
Sample type			Capillary whole blood			Same		
Sample sites			Fingertip, Palm, forearm, calf
and thigh.			Same		
Sample volume			0.5 µL			Same		
Sample test time			5 seconds			Same		
Memory Capacity			250 Tests			500 Tests		
Differences								
Test Average
range			14 days			1, 7, 14, 30, and 90 days		
Battery Type			Two 3.0 V CR2032 lithium
batteries			Two 1.5 V AAA alkaline
batteries		
Test strip ejector			No			Yes		

--- Page 5 ---
L. Test Principle:
The glucose measurement is based on electrical potential caused by the reaction of
glucose with the reagents contained on the strip’s electrodes. The glucose in the
sample is oxidized by the enzyme glucose oxidase, and the current resulting from this
enzymatic reaction is measured and converted to glucose concentration by the meter.
The magnitude of the current is proportional to the concentration of glucose in the
sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
The meter and test strips for the CareSens N LINK and CareSens N LINK Multi
Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems are the same components. The two Systems only
differ in name and intended use (single- versus multiple-patient use). Therefore, one
set of data are presented for both test systems. This submission, changes the shape of
the meter’s housing, makes changes to software (test result average range and
memory), and changes the battery type for previously cleared CareSens N Glucose
meters.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision/Reproducibility were previously established in k083468:
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity was previously established in k083468:
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
As established in k083468
Test Strip Stability:
As established in k083468
When stored unopened at the recommended storage temperature is 34° F to
86°F ( 1-30°C) and between 10-90% relative humidity.
Control Solution Value Assignment and Stability:
As established in k083468
When stored unopened at the recommended storage temperature is 34° F to
86°F ( 1-30°C).
d. Detection limit:
5

--- Page 6 ---
See linearity study in Section M1b above.
e. Analytical specificity:
As established in k080923
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
System Accuracy for all claimed sampling sites was previously established in
k080923.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
User Performance Study was previously established in k080923
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The range of a normal fasting blood glucose level for non-diabetic adults is
between 70 – 99 mg/dL. Two hours after a meal, the range of a normal blood
glucose level for non-diabetic adults is between 100 – 139 mg/dL. Fasting is
defined as no caloric intake for at least eight hours.
Reference: American Diabetes Association. “Standards of Medical Care in
Diabetes – 20-12.” Diabetes Care. January 2012; 35(1):S11-S63.
N. Instrument Name:
CareSens N LINK Meter
CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Meter
6

--- Page 7 ---
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Each test strip is single use and requires a sample volume of 0.5 mL.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Yes __ X __ or No .
As established in K100937.
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile
device using wireless transmission?
Yes __ __ or No X .
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes X or No ________.
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied
directly to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The glucose test is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from the finger
and forearm, palm, thigh, and calf. The whole blood sample is applied directly to
the test strip by capillary action.
5. Calibration:
The meter is autocoded, therefore no coding is required by the user. The coding
circuit printed on the test strip is consistent with the code in the meter and the
meter detects the code of the strip.
6. Quality Control:
Control A, and Control B are available for use with this system (sold separately).
The meter has a control solution test mode. The control solution readings are not
included in the average of the patient results when the measurements are
performed in the control solution mode. An acceptable range for each control
level is printed on the test strip vial label. Recommendations on when to test the
control materials are provided in the labeling and what the user should do if the
control result falls outside these ranges.
7

--- Page 8 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not
Covered In The “Performance Characteristics” Section above:
1) Hematocrit Study:
As established in k080923
2) Altitude study:
As established in k080923
3) Sample volume study:
As established in k080923
4) Temperature and humidity studies:
As established in k080923
5) Infection Control Studies: The CareSens N LINK Blood Glucose Monitoring
System is intended for single-patient use only. Clorox Germicidal Wipes with
EPA registration number 67619-12 were validated demonstrating complete
inactivation of live virus for use with the meter and lancing device. The sponsor
also demonstrated that there was no change in performance or in the external
materials of the meter after 260 cleaning and disinfection cycles (one cycle
includes one cleaning wipe plus one disinfecting wipe) to simulate 5 years of
meter use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated
cleaning and disinfection procedures.
CareSens N LINK Multi Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for
multiple-patient use in a health care setting. Clorox Germicidal Wipes with EPA
registration number 67619-12 were validated demonstrating complete inactivation
of live virus for use with the meter. The sponsor also demonstrated that there
was no change in performance or in the external materials of the meter after
10,950 cleaning and disinfection cycles (one cycle includes one cleaning wipe
plus one disinfecting wipe) to simulate 3 years of meter use. Labeling was
reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection
procedures.
1) EMC testing was evaluated and certified by EMC Compliance Ltd (Korea), and
Verification of Compliance certificates provided.
2) Flesch-Kincaid readability assessment was conducted and the results
demonstrated that the User Manual, test strip package insert and control solution
package insert were written at the 8th grade level.
3) Customer support is available Monday through Friday 9:00 am to 9:00 pm EST
by calling 1-800-429-5001.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
9