
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k131013
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification of previously cleared device to include an optional ketone test alert and auto
control detection.
C. Measurand:
FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System: Glucose in fresh capillary whole blood
obtained from the fingertip or forearm
FOCUS Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System: Glucose in venous and arterial whole
blood and in fresh capillary whole blood obtained from the fingertip or forearm.
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative amperometric assay (GDH-FAD)
E. Applicant:
Nova Biomedical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System
FOCUS Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
Product
Classification Regulation Section Panel
Code
21 CFR§ 862.1345, Glucose
NBW Class II Clinical Chemistry (75)
Test System
21 CFR§ 862.1345, Glucose
LFR Class II Clinical Chemistry (75)
Test System
Class I, 21 CFR § 862.1660,
JJX Clinical Chemistry (75)
reserved Quality control material
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
Product
Code	Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
NBW	Class II	21 CFR§ 862.1345, Glucose
Test System	Clinical Chemistry (75)
LFR	Class II	21 CFR§ 862.1345, Glucose
Test System	Clinical Chemistry (75)
JJX	Class I,
reserved	21 CFR § 862.1660,
Quality control material	Clinical Chemistry (75)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for the quantitative
measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood obtained from the fingertip or
forearm. Intended to be used by a single-patient and should not be shared. Intended for
self-testing outside the body by people with diabetes mellitus as an aid to monitor the
effectiveness of diabetes control. Alternative site testing on the forearm can be used only
during steady-state blood glucose conditions. Not intended for the diagnosis of or
screening for diabetes, and not intended for use on neonates.
FOCUS Blood Glucose Test Strips are used only with FOCUS Meters to quantitatively
measure whole blood glucose in fresh, human capillary whole blood taken from the
fingertip or forearm.
FOCUS Control Solution is for use with FOCUS and FOCUS PRO Meters and Test
Strips as a quality control check to verify that the meter and test strip are working
together properly, and that the test is performing correctly.
The FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for the quantitative
measurement of glucose in venous and arterial whole blood and in fresh capillary
whole blood obtained from the fingertip or forearm. Intended for testing outside the
body (in vitro diagnostic use) for multi-patient use in a professional healthcare setting
as an aid to monitor the effectiveness of a diabetes control program. This system
should only be used with single-use, auto-disabling lancing devices. Alternative site
testing on the forearm should be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions. Not intended for the diagnosis of or screening for diabetes, and not
intended for use on neonates.
FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Test Strips are used only with FOCUS PRO Meters for the
quantitative measurement of glucose in venous and arterial whole blood and in fresh
capillary whole blood taken from the fingertip or forearm..
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System
FOCUS Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System
The FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System
· For Over-the-Counter use
· Not for neonatal use
2

--- Page 3 ---
· Not for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus
· Not for use on critically ill patients, patients in shock, dehydrated patients or hyper-
osmolar patients
· Alternative site testing (AST) can be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions
· AST results should not be used for continuous glucose monitor calibration or for use in
insulin dose calculations
· Single-patient use only system; should not be shared
The FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitoring System
· For Prescription Use
· Not for neonatal use
· Not for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus
· This system has not been validated in the critically ill
· Alternative site testing (AST) can be used only during steady-state blood glucose
conditions
· AST results should not be used for continuous glucose monitor calibration or for use in
the insulin dose calculations
· This system should only be used with single-use, auto-disabling lancing devices
4. Special instrument requirements:
FOCUS Blood Glucose Meter
FOCUS Pro Blood Glucose Meter
I. Device Description:
This is a modification of a previously cleared device to include housing/material construction
changes and software modification to include optional ketone test alert and auto control
detection.
The FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System consists of the FOUCS Blood Glucose meter
(sold separately), 10 FOCUS Test Strips (sold separately), FOCUS Control Solution Level 1
(sold separately), Lancing Device for single patient use only and lancets, clear cap (sold
separately), log book for recording test results carry case, and User Manual.
The FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitoring System consists of the FOUCS PRO Blood
Glucose meter (sold separately), 10 PRO FOCUS Test Strips (sold separately), FOCUS
Control Solution Level 1(sold separately), and User Manual.
Each test strip contains the following reagent compositions: flavin adenine dinucleotide-
glucose dehydrogenase (FAD-GDH from Aspergillus Oryzae); mediator ; and other non-
reactive ingredients.
Control Solution level 1 is included in the kits, and control solution levels 2 and 3 are sold
3

--- Page 4 ---
separately. Each level control solution vial contains 3.0 ml aqueous solution.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Nova One Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k122435
5. Comparison with predicate:
Candidate device
NOVA One Blood Glucose
FOCUS Blood Glucose
Item Monitoring System
Monitoring System (Self-
(Predicate Device, k122435)
Monitoring)
Similarities
It is intended to be used for
quantitative measurement of
Indication glucose in fresh capillary whole
Same
For Use blood as an aid to monitor the
effectiveness of diabetes control in
people with diabetes.
Assay Colorimetric Electrochemical
Same
Method Sensor
Test Range 20 – 600 mg/dL Same
Sample
0.40μl same
volume
Test time 4 seconds same
Glucose in venous and arterial
Sample whole blood and in fresh capillary
same
type whole blood obtained from the
fingertip or forearm.
Hematocrit 25% to 60% Same
Coding None Same
Differences
Yes, when glucose value is above
Ketone
240 mg/dL. Feature can be turned N/A
Alert
on/off by the user during set up.
Automatic
Yes, identifies control sample as a
Control N/A
control.
Detection
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
				Candidate device				
							NOVA One Blood Glucose	
				FOCUS Blood Glucose				
	Item						Monitoring System	
				Monitoring System (Self-				
							(Predicate Device, k122435)	
				Monitoring)				
								
	Similarities							
Indication
For Use			It is intended to be used for
quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary whole
blood as an aid to monitor the
effectiveness of diabetes control in
people with diabetes.			Same		
Assay
Method			Colorimetric Electrochemical
Sensor			Same		
Test Range			20 – 600 mg/dL			Same		
Sample
volume			0.40μl			same		
Test time			4 seconds			same		
Sample
type			Glucose in venous and arterial
whole blood and in fresh capillary
whole blood obtained from the
fingertip or forearm.			same		
Hematocrit			25% to 60%			Same		
Coding			None			Same		
								
	Differences							
Ketone
Alert			Yes, when glucose value is above
240 mg/dL. Feature can be turned
on/off by the user during set up.			N/A		
Automatic
Control
Detection			Yes, identifies control sample as a
control.			N/A		

--- Page 5 ---
Candidate Device NOVA One Blood Glucose
FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitoring System
Item
Monitoring System (Professional Monitoring)
(Professional Monitoring) (Predicate Device, k122435)
Similarities
It is intended to be used for the
quantitative measurement of
glucose in venous, arterial and
Indication
fresh capillary whole blood from Same
For Use
the finger and forearm as an aid
to monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control program.
Assay
Colorimetric Electrochemical Sensor Same
Method
Test Range 20 – 600 mg/dL Same
Sample
0.40μl same
volume
Test time 4 seconds same
Glucose in venous and arterial whole
blood and in fresh capillary whole
Sample type same
blood obtained from the fingertip or
forearm.
Hematocrit 25% to 60% Same
Coding None Same
Differences
Yes, when glucose value is above 240
Ketone
mg/dL. Feature can be turned on/off N/A
Alert
by the user during set up.
Automatic
Yes, identifies control sample as a
Control N/A
control.
Detection
NOVA One Glucose Control
Candidate device
Item Solutions
FOCUS Control Solutions
(Predicate Device, k122435)
Similarities
It is intended to be used for use as
a quality control check to verify
that the meter and test strip are
Indication
working together properly, and Same
For Use
that the test is performing
correctly.
Levels 1,2, and 3 same
Matrix aqueous same
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
				Candidate Device			NOVA One Blood Glucose	
				FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose			Monitoring System	
	Item							
				Monitoring System			(Professional Monitoring)	
								
				(Professional Monitoring)			(Predicate Device, k122435)	
	Similarities							
Indication
For Use			It is intended to be used for the
quantitative measurement of
glucose in venous, arterial and
fresh capillary whole blood from
the finger and forearm as an aid
to monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control program.			Same		
Assay
Method			Colorimetric Electrochemical Sensor			Same		
Test Range			20 – 600 mg/dL			Same		
Sample
volume			0.40μl			same		
Test time			4 seconds			same		
Sample type			Glucose in venous and arterial whole
blood and in fresh capillary whole
blood obtained from the fingertip or
forearm.			same		
Hematocrit			25% to 60%			Same		
Coding			None			Same		
	Differences							
Ketone
Alert			Yes, when glucose value is above 240
mg/dL. Feature can be turned on/off
by the user during set up.			N/A		
Automatic
Control
Detection			Yes, identifies control sample as a
control.			N/A		

[Table 2 on page 5]
							NOVA One Glucose Control	
				Candidate device				
	Item						Solutions	
				FOCUS Control Solutions				
							(Predicate Device, k122435)	
								
	Similarities							
Indication
For Use			It is intended to be used for use as
a quality control check to verify
that the meter and test strip are
working together properly, and
that the test is performing
correctly.			Same		
Levels			1,2, and 3			same		
Matrix			aqueous			same		

--- Page 6 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
IEC 60601: Medical electrical equipment-Part 1-2: general requirements for safety- collateral
standard: Electromagnetic compatibility – Requirements and tests.
EN55011: Limits and methods of measurement of radio disturbance characteristics of industrial,
scientific, and medical RF equipment.
IEC 61010-1: Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control and
laboratory use – Part 1: General Requirements.
IEC 61010-2-101: Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control and
laboratory use – Particular requirements for In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) Medical Equipment.
L. Test Principle:
The FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitor and FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitor measures
glucose electrochemically. The glucose biosensor is capable of recognizing the glucose present in
whole blood or control solutions by virtue of the glucose specificity of the enzyme glucose
dehydrogenase (GDH) present on the glucose test strip. The electrons liberated by this reaction
are transferred via a co-factor and mediator (FAD) to the meter where they are read as a small
electrical current. The current is integrated over the analysis time to generate charge which is
directly proportional to the level of the glucose in the applied sample.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
This submission is seeking clearance for modifications to a previously cleared device to
include an optional ketone test alert and auto control detection. The sponsor uses the same
analytical claim for the current test system and refers to the predicate 510(k) for the respective
studies. No new performance studies were necessary for this device modification. The two
systems in the submission only differ in their intended use (single-use vs. multiple-patient
use) and the name; therefore, the performance data applies to both systems.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Established in k112638.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The measuring range of the device is 20-600 mg/dL based on studies conducted in
k112638.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
6

--- Page 7 ---
Traceability
Traceable to NIST SRM 91, dry D-glucose.
Stability
Glucose test strip:
The candidate blood glucose test strips were previously cleared in k112638. However
the brand name of the glucose strip has been updated to FOCUS Test Strips and
FOCUS Pro Test Strips. The stability claims are 24 months when stored between
temperatures of 15 to 30 °C between 10- 90% relative humidity and open-vial stability of
90 days when strips are stored at 15 to 30 °C between 10- 90% relative humidity as
determined in k112638.
Control Solution:
The control solutions were previously cleared and stability and value assignment was
previously established in k112638. The only difference is that they have been renamed
to FOCUS Control Solutions (Levels 1, 2, 3).
d. Detection limit:
The reportable range is 20-600 mg/dL based on linearity study referenced in Section
M.1.b. above.
e. Analytical specificity:
Established in k112638. The sponsor has provided the following statements in the
labeling:
· Cholesterol up to 500 mg/dL or triglyceride up to 750 mg/dL does not
significantly affect results.
· Therapeutic levels of n-acetylcysteine and elevated uric acid may affect results.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with YSI:
The system accuracy on finger stick and forearm samples was evaluated in k112638.
The system accuracy on venous and arterial samples was evaluated in k122435.
7

--- Page 8 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Established in k122435.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
A lay user finger and forearm study was evaluated in k112638.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
In the labeling the sponsor provides the following expected values and reference citation:
The normal fasting adult blood glucose value for a person without diabetes is <100
mg/dL. One to two hours after meals normal blood glucose levels should be less than 140
mg/dL.
American Diabetes Association, Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus.
Diabetes Care, Volume 36, Supplement 1, January 2013.
N. Instrument Name:
FOCUS Blood Glucose Meter
FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Each test strip is single use and must be replaced with a new strip for additional readings.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver or mobile device?
Yes _________ or No _____X____
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device using
wireless transmission?
Yes _________ or No _____X____
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied directly
to the test strip as they are collected. Controls samples are identified as controls.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitor is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from
the fingertip, which is directly applied to the test strip.
FOCUS PRO Blood Glucose Monitor is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from
the finger and forearm, as well as venous and arterial whole blood collected in sodium or
lithium heparin tubes. The whole blood sample is applied directly to the test strip by capillary
action.
5. Calibration:
The meter is a non-coding meter, therefore no coding is required by the user.
6. Quality Control:
The sponsor has three levels of control solutions (level 1 control solution is included with the
kits). When a test strip is inserted into the meter, each control can be measured by following
the instructions for “Running Control Solution” provided in the user’s manual. Auto Control
Detection automatically detects control solution when used in testing. The ionic strength of
the control solution provides a current flow unique to just control solution. An acceptable
range for each control level is printed on the test strip vial label. If the test results fall outside
the range printed on the test strip vial, the user is instructed to contact Customer Service
(available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week).
9

--- Page 10 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
1. Infection control
Infection Control Studies: The device systems are intended for single-patient use
(FOCUS Blood Glucose Monitoring System) or multiple-patient use (FOCUS Pro Blood
Glucose Monitoring System). Disinfection efficacy studies were performed on the
materials comprising the meter by an outside commercial testing laboratory
demonstrating complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the chosen
disinfectant, PDI Super Sani-Cloth Wipes (EPA Registration # 9480-4). Robustness
studies were performed by the sponsor demonstrating that there was no change in
performance or external materials of the meter after 10,950 cleanings and 10,950
disinfection steps with the 10,950 wipes. The robustness studies were designed to
simulate 3 years of use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the
validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.
2. Temperature and humidity operating conditions
o o o
The sponsor claims operating temperature from 57 F-104 F (14-40 C) and relative
humidity range from 10% to 93%, as established in k112638.
3. EMC testing
EMC testing was evaluated and certified by The Compliance Management Group. A test
certificate was issued to Nova on January 30, 2013.
4. Altitude Study
The sponsor claims that an altitude up to 10,000 feet does not affect the test results of the
proposed device as established in k112638.
5. Hematocrit study
The sponsor claims a hematocrit range of 25 to 60% as established in k112638.
6. Usability Study
The sponsor performed a Usability Study using 101 subjects to evaluate the FOCUS
blood glucose monitoring system with respect to ergonomics, ease-of-use, and
instructions for use.
7. Readability Evaluation of FOCUS Instructions
The sponsor performed a readability assessment of the labeling and states that the owner’s
guide, strip insert and control insert are written at the 8th grade level or below based on
Flesch-Kincaid Readability Assessment.
8. Glucose Control Auto Detection Study
The sponsor performed a Glucose Control Auto Detection Study to verify the FOCUS
blood glucose monitoring system correctly performs automatic glucose control detection
10

--- Page 11 ---
by identifying glucose control samples as a control. The sponsor evaluated three levels of
glucose control solutions and 6 levels of venous whole blood (n=360) using three lots of
test strips and six FOCUS/FOCUS PRO meters and correctly identified 100% of the
control solutions.
9. Ketone Test Alert Study
The Ketone Test Alert (optional) is intended to alert users when blood glucose results are
greater than 240 mg/dL so that users may check their ketone levels using an alternate
method if it is part of their treatment plan. The sponsor performed a Ketone Test Alert
Study to verify the FOCUS blood glucose monitoring system correctly performs the
Ketone Test Alert on samples > 240 mg/dL.
10. Sample Volume Study
The sponsor claims that a minimum of 0.40μl of sample volume are required for this system,
as established in k112638.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11