
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k)
Device Modification Decision Summary
To: Remel Inc. RE: K131804
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Trade Name: Remel Xpect® Flu A&B
510(k) number: K031565, K092423
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S). The modification presented in this 510(k) is the
inclusion of the H7N9 influenza A virus strain A/Anhui/1/2013 to the analytical sensitivity information.
The submitter tested the ability of the Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test to detect the H7N9 influenza A
virus. The viral stock (A/Anhui/1/2013) was obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. It was diluted, tested in triplicate and the analytical sensitivity was reported as the lowest
dilution/concentration of the H7N9 virus that the Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test was able to detect. An
LoD study was performed with the A/Anhui/1/2013 influenza strain at the following concentrations:
· 1.26 x 106 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 105 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 104 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 103 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 102 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 101 TCID /mL
50
· 1.26 x 100 TCID /mL
50
The LoD was determined to be 1.26 x 105 TCID50/mL.
The Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test package insert has been updated to include the additional analytical
sensitivity information.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics:

--- Page 2 ---
2
Similarities
Predicate Device: New Device:
Device
Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test
Characteristics
(K031565, K092423) (K131804)
REMEL Xpect® Flu A&B is a REMEL Xpect® Flu A&B is a rapid in
Intended Use rapid in vitro vitro immunochromatographic test for
immunochromatographic test for the direct, qualitative detection of
the direct, qualitative detection of influenza A and influenza B viral
influenza A and influenza B viral antigen (nucleoprotein) from nasal
antigen (nucleoprotein) from wash, nasal swab, and throat swab
nasal wash, nasal swab, and specimens from symptomatic
throat swab specimens from patients. The test is intended as an
symptomatic patients. The test is aid in the rapid diagnosis of influenza
intended as an aid in the rapid A and influenza B viral infections. A
diagnosis of influenza A and negative test is presumptive and it is
influenza B viral infections. recommended these results be
Negative tests should be confirmed by virus culture or an FDA-
confirmed by cell culture. cleared influenza A and B molecular
assay.
Qualitative; Influenza A and B viral Qualitative; Influenza A and B viral
Sample
antigens with differentiation antigens with differentiation
Test
Immunochromotographic Immunochromotographic membrane
Methodology
membrane assay assay
Nasal wash, nasal swab, and Nasal wash, nasal swab, and throat
Specimen Type
throat swab specimen swab specimen
Interpretation Visual read Visual read
Incubation 15 minutes 15 minutes
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include detection of the following H7N9 virus in the
analytical sensitivity information section:
A/Anhui/1/2013(H7N9)**
**Although this test has been shown to detect the influenza A/California/04/2009 (H1N1) and
A/Anhui/1/2013 (H7N9) viruses cultured from positive human specimens. The performance
characteristics of this device with human specimens infected with these influenza viruses have
not been established. Xpect® Flu A&B can distinguish between influenza A and B viruses, but it
does not differentiate influenza subtypes.
(Note: A/Californial04/2009** was added in 2009, K092423-Special 510(k))
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
Summary:
1. The Xpect Flu A&B Test device design has not been modified in any way. New Analytical
Sensitivity testing was performed and resulting data is submitted with this Special 510(k)
application demonstrating ability of the device to detect the novel influenza A/Anhul/112013
(H7N9) virus cultured from positive human specimens. No performance characteristics were

[Table 1 on page 2]
				Predicate Device:			New Device:	
	Device							
				Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test			Remel Xpect® Flu A&B Test	
	Characteristics							
				(K031565, K092423)			(K131804)	
								
			REMEL Xpect® Flu A&B is a
rapid in vitro
immunochromatographic test for
the direct, qualitative detection of
influenza A and influenza B viral
antigen (nucleoprotein) from
nasal wash, nasal swab, and
throat swab specimens from
symptomatic patients. The test is
intended as an aid in the rapid
diagnosis of influenza A and
influenza B viral infections.
Negative tests should be
confirmed by cell culture.			REMEL Xpect® Flu A&B is a rapid in
vitro immunochromatographic test for
the direct, qualitative detection of
influenza A and influenza B viral
antigen (nucleoprotein) from nasal
wash, nasal swab, and throat swab
specimens from symptomatic
patients. The test is intended as an
aid in the rapid diagnosis of influenza
A and influenza B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive and it is
recommended these results be
confirmed by virus culture or an FDA-
cleared influenza A and B molecular
assay.		
	Intended Use							
								
			Qualitative; Influenza A and B viral
antigens with differentiation			Qualitative; Influenza A and B viral
antigens with differentiation		
	Sample							
								
	Test		Immunochromotographic
membrane assay			Immunochromotographic membrane
assay		
	Methodology							
								
			Nasal wash, nasal swab, and
throat swab specimen			Nasal wash, nasal swab, and throat
swab specimen		
	Specimen Type							
								
	Interpretation		Visual read			Visual read		
			15 minutes			15 minutes		
	Incubation							
								

--- Page 3 ---
3
established, modified, or removed based on this analytical testing. The intended use for this
device has not changed.
2. The method used for the Risk Analysis for the Xpect Flu A&B test was Failure Mode Effects
Analysis (FMEA). The methods of risk analysis were consistent with 21 CFR 820.30. The
following table summarizes the risk analysis:
Modification Hazard Cause/s Effect/s
Addition of Environmental Improper sterilization of specimens, Risk of disease associated with
H7N9 Contamination containers, and test devices after microbial hazards
Influenza A use
strain: False Positive Improper specimen transport and Potential side effects of antiviral
handling, failure to follow procedure therapy, unnecessary patient
A/Anhui/1/201 for use, improper test interpretation isolation, inappropriate patient
3 Non-specific binding due to management
antigens in host samples other than
influenza
False Negative Poor quality of specimen collected, Potential lack of infection control,
stage of illness, infecting subtype, unnecessary antibiotic use,
improper transport, failure to follow inappropriate management of
procedure for use, improper test patients with underlying
interpretation, Improper storage, conditions or those with an
use beyond expiration date, increased risk of serious
compromised during complications
shipping/storage/use
Manufacturing processing breach,
mishandling by end-user
Infecting subtype has nucleoprotein
not detected or below the limit of
detection of the assay
a. For environmental hazards risk types, the effects of these common device risks were
addressed with labeling and industry standards for disposal of biological and
environmental waste (either bi-products or actual devices). The risks were deemed
reduced to acceptable levels based on federal, state, and local regulations.
b. For false positive and false negative test results, the effects of the risks to patients were
addressed through labeling, training for users, internal and external quality control, and
recommendation that negative results be confirmed by virus culture or an FDA-cleared
influenza A and B molecular assay. Complaint investigations and associated trend
analysis are used on an ongoing basis to evaluate overall residual risk.
3. Declaration of Conformity to Design Control
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Senior Manager Regulatory Affairs, Americas. The statements indicate
that;
1. All verification and validation activities, as specified In the Risk Analysis, were performed by
designated individuals and the results demonstrate that the predetermined acceptance criteria
were met.
2. Remel lnc., as the manufacturing facility, is in conformance with the design control procedures
stated in 21 CFR Parts 820.30. Remel lnc. has established and maintains procedures to control
the design of the device and ensures that specified design requirements are met through design
planning, design input and output, design review and verification, design validation, design
change evaluation, and design history file.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Modification	Hazard	Cause/s	Effect/s
Addition of
H7N9
Influenza A
strain:
A/Anhui/1/201
3	Environmental
Contamination	Improper sterilization of specimens,
containers, and test devices after
use	Risk of disease associated with
microbial hazards
	False Positive	Improper specimen transport and
handling, failure to follow procedure
for use, improper test interpretation
Non-specific binding due to
antigens in host samples other than
influenza	Potential side effects of antiviral
therapy, unnecessary patient
isolation, inappropriate patient
management
	False Negative	Poor quality of specimen collected,
stage of illness, infecting subtype,
improper transport, failure to follow
procedure for use, improper test
interpretation, Improper storage,
use beyond expiration date,
compromised during
shipping/storage/use
Manufacturing processing breach,
mishandling by end-user
Infecting subtype has nucleoprotein
not detected or below the limit of
detection of the assay	Potential lack of infection control,
unnecessary antibiotic use,
inappropriate management of
patients with underlying
conditions or those with an
increased risk of serious
complications

--- Page 4 ---
4
In conclusion, based on both the results of the analytical sensitivity testing and the risk management
report, the modified labeling is truthful and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of
the test and it is therefore substantially equivalent to the current cleared test.
7. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary, and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. On this basis, I recommend
the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.