
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: Quidel Corporation RE: K131606
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Sofia® Influenza A+B FIA
510(k) number: K112177
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. Description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
The modification presented in this special 510(k) consisted of expanded reactivity table to
include reactivity information for the H7N9 influenza A virus. The firm tested the ability of the
SofiaInfluenza A+B FIA test to detect H7N9 influenza A virus. The virus used (A/Anhui/1/2013) was
obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as non-infectious beta-propiolactone
inactivated virus. An LoD study was performed with the A/Anhui/1/2013 influenza strain at the
following concentrations:
· 7.90 x 108 EID /mL
50
· 7.90 x 106 EID /mL
50
· 3.95 x 106 EID /mL
50
· 1.98 x 106 EID /mL
50
· 7.90 x 105 EID /mL
50
· 7.90 x 104 EID /mL
50
The LoD was determined to be 3.95 x 106 EID /ml. The Sofia Influenza A+B FIA test package
50
insert has been updated to include the additional analytical reactivity information.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3
5. Comparison Information
Similarities
Proposed Device Predicate Device
Features Sofia Influenza A+B FIA Sofia Influenza A+B FIA
Read results on instrument Read results on instrument
Read Results screen or print with optional screen or print with optional
printer printer
Instrument Sofia Analyzer Sofia Analyzer
Yes – Calibration cassette and Yes – Calibration cassette and
Calibrator
QC card provided QC card provided
Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
Specimen Types swab, and nasopharyngeal swab, and nasopharyngeal
aspirate/wash aspirate/wash
Read Result Time 15 Minutes 15 Minutes
Test kit contains positive and Test kit contains positive and
External Controls
negative control swabs negative control swabs
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include detection of the A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9 virus in
the analytical reactivity information section:
A/Anhui/1/2013 - A - H7N9 - 3.95x106EID /mL
50
Although this test has been shown to detect inactivated A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9 virus cultured
from positive human respiratory specimens, the performance characteristics of this device with
clinical specimens that are positive for H7N9 influenza viruses have not been established. The
Sofia Influenza A+B FIA test can distinguish between influenza A and B viruses, but it cannot
differentiate influenza A subtypes.
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
Analytical Reactivity Testing was conducted as described in section 11, “Inclusivity and LoD for
Influenza A H7/N9”.
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Senior Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs. The statements
indicate that:
1. The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements
as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
2. The validation activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were
performed by the designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the
predetermined acceptance criteria were met.
In conclusion, based on the results of the analytical reactivity testing the modified labeling is truthful
and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of the test and it is therefore substantially
equivalent to the current cleared test.

[Table 1 on page 2]
				Proposed Device			Predicate Device	
	Features			Sofia Influenza A+B FIA			Sofia Influenza A+B FIA	
Read Results			Read results on instrument
screen or print with optional
printer			Read results on instrument
screen or print with optional
printer		
Instrument			Sofia Analyzer			Sofia Analyzer		
Calibrator			Yes – Calibration cassette and
QC card provided			Yes – Calibration cassette and
QC card provided		
Specimen Types			Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
swab, and nasopharyngeal
aspirate/wash			Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
swab, and nasopharyngeal
aspirate/wash		
Read Result Time			15 Minutes			15 Minutes		
External Controls			Test kit contains positive and
negative control swabs			Test kit contains positive and
negative control swabs		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3
7. Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.