
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Decision Summary
To: Quidel Corporation RE: K131619
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Trade Name: QuickVue® Influenza A+B test
510(k) number: K092698, K053146, K031899
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S). The modification presented in this 510(k) consisted
of expanded reactivity table to include reactivity information for the H7N9 influenza A
virus. The submitter tested the ability of the QuickVue® Influenza A+B test to detect H7N9 influenza A
virus. The virus used (A/Anhui/1/2013) was obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention as non-infectious beta-propiolactone inactivated virus. An LoD study was performed with
the A/Anhui/1/2013 influenza strain at concentrations:
· 7.90x108 EID /mL
50
· 7.90x107 EID /mL
50
· 7.90x106 EID /mL
50
· 3.95x106 EID /mL
50
The LoD was determined to be 7.90x106 EID /mL.
50
The QuickVue® Influenza A+B test package insert has been updated to include the additional
analytical reactivity information
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics:
Similarities
Item Proposed Device Proposed Device
Features QuickVue Influenza A+B test QuickVue Influenza A+B test
Intended Use The QuickVue Influenza A+B test The QuickVue Influenza A+B test
allows for the rapid, qualitative allows for the rapid, qualitative
detection of influenza type A and detection of influenza type A and
type B antigens directly from nasal type B antigens directly from nasal
swab, nasopharyngeal swab, swab, nasopharyngeal swab,
nasal aspirate, and nasal wash nasal aspirate, and nasal wash
specimens. The test is intended specimens. The test is intended
for use as an aid in the rapid for use as an aid in the rapid
differential diagnosis of acute differential diagnosis of acute
influenza type A and type B viral influenza type A and type B viral
infections. The test is not intended infections. The test is not intended
to detect influenza C antigens. to detect influenza C antigens.

[Table 1 on page 1]
Item	Proposed Device	Proposed Device
Features	QuickVue Influenza A+B test	QuickVue Influenza A+B test
Intended Use	The QuickVue Influenza A+B test
allows for the rapid, qualitative
detection of influenza type A and
type B antigens directly from nasal
swab, nasopharyngeal swab,
nasal aspirate, and nasal wash
specimens. The test is intended
for use as an aid in the rapid
differential diagnosis of acute
influenza type A and type B viral
infections. The test is not intended
to detect influenza C antigens.	The QuickVue Influenza A+B test
allows for the rapid, qualitative
detection of influenza type A and
type B antigens directly from nasal
swab, nasopharyngeal swab,
nasal aspirate, and nasal wash
specimens. The test is intended
for use as an aid in the rapid
differential diagnosis of acute
influenza type A and type B viral
infections. The test is not intended
to detect influenza C antigens.

--- Page 2 ---
2
Negative results should be Negative results should be
confirmed by cell culture; they do confirmed by cell culture; they do
not preclude influenza virus not preclude influenza virus
infection and should not be used infection and should not be used
as the sole basis for treatment or as the sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions. The other management decisions. The
test is intended for professional test is intended for professional
and laboratory use. and laboratory use.
Read Results Visual Visual
Specimen Types Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
swab, nasal aspirate, and nasal swab, nasal aspirate, and nasal
wash wash
Read Result 10 minutes 10 minutes
Time
External Test kit contains Positive and Test kit contains Positive and
Controls Negative Control swabs Negative Control swabs
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include detection of the A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9 virus in
the analytical reactivity information section:
A/Anhui/1/2013 - A - H7N9 - 7.90x106 EID /mL
50
Although this test has been shown to detect these 2009 H1N1 and H7N9 viruses cultured from
positive human respiratory specimens, the performance characteristics of this device with clinical
specimens that are positive for these 2009 H1N1 or H7N9 influenza viruses have not been
established. The QuickVue® Influenza A+B Test can distinguish between influenza A and B
viruses, but it cannot differentiate influenza A subtypes.
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
a) Analytical Reactivity Testing was conducted as described in section 3, Device Modifications.
b) Declaration of Conformity
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Director of Quality Assurance and the Senior Director of Technical
Operations respectively. The statements indicate that;
1. The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as
specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
2. The validation activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were performed by
the designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance
criteria were met.
In conclusion, based on the results of the analytical reactivity testing the modified labeling is truthful
and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of the test and it is therefore substantially
equivalent to the current cleared test.

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Negative results should be
confirmed by cell culture; they do
not preclude influenza virus
infection and should not be used
as the sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions. The
test is intended for professional
and laboratory use.	Negative results should be
confirmed by cell culture; they do
not preclude influenza virus
infection and should not be used
as the sole basis for treatment or
other management decisions. The
test is intended for professional
and laboratory use.
Read Results	Visual	Visual
Specimen Types	Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
swab, nasal aspirate, and nasal
wash	Nasal swab, nasopharyngeal
swab, nasal aspirate, and nasal
wash
Read Result
Time	10 minutes	10 minutes
External
Controls	Test kit contains Positive and
Negative Control swabs	Test kit contains Positive and
Negative Control swabs

--- Page 3 ---
3
7. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary, and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. On this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.