
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k131444
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for the following parameters in urine samples: glucose, protein,
bilirubin, urobilinogen, pH, blood, ketones, nitrite, leukocytes, specific gravity, turbidity,
color and microscopic determination of RBC, WBC, epithelial cells, casts, bacteria, crystals,
and conductivity.
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Streck
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
UA-Cellular Complete
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.1660, Quality control material, (assayed, and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJW
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use statements below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
UA-Cellular Complete is an assayed chemistry and cellular urine control for evaluating
the accuracy and precision of automated procedures that measure urinary sediment and
chemistry parameters on the Sysmex® UF-1000i™ Automated Urine Particle Analyzer
and the Siemens® Clinitek Atlas Automated Urine Chemistry Analyzer utilizing the
Clinitek Atlas 10 Reagent Pak.
The list of assayed parameters includes:
Sysmex UF-1000i: RBC(/μL), WBC(/μL), Epithelial (/μL), Cast, Bacteria (/μL),
Crystals, Conductivity (mS/cm)
Siemens Clinitek Atlas with Atlas 10 Reagent Pak: Glucose (mg/dL), Bilirubin (As
Measured), Ketones (mg/dL), Specific Gravity (As Measured), Blood (As Measured), pH
(As Measured), Protein (mg/dL), Urobilinogen (EU/dL), Nitrite (As Measured),
Leukocytes (As Measured), Color (As Measured), Clarity (As Measured)
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Sysmex® UF-1000i™ Automated Urine Particle Analyzer
Siemens® Clinitek Atlas Automated Urine Chemistry Analyzer
I. Device Description:
UA-Cellular Complete is an in vitro diagnostic product designed specifically for use with the
Siemens Clinitek Atlas Automated Urine Chemistry Analyzer using the Clinitek Atlas 10
Reagent Pak and the Sysmex UF-1000i Automated Urine Particle Analyzer. UA-Cellular
Complete is a tri-level control material which contains the following: stabilized mammalian
red blood cells (human source) and white blood cells, stabilized bacteria, and simulated urine
sediments in a preservative medium. Analyte levels are adjusted with appropriate chemicals.
The product is packaged in 4 oz. amber plastic bottles with foil-lined flip-top-caps. All
human source material used to manufacture this product was non-reactive for antigens to
Hepatitis B (HBsAg), negative by tests for antibodies to HIV (HIV-1/HIV-s) and Hepatitis C
(HCV), non-reactive for HIV-1 RNA and HCV RNA by licensed NAT, and non-reactive to
Serological Test for Syphilis (STS) using techniques specified by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.

--- Page 3 ---
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
MAS UA Control
Sysmex UF-1000i with Urinalysis WAM
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k023928
k080887
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities and Differences
Item Device Predicate 1 (k023928 – Predicate 2
MAS UA Control) (k080887 – UFII
Control)
Intended Same Same Assayed control
Use material for evaluating
the accuracy and
precision of automated
procedures that measure
urinary analytes
Measurands Sysmex UF-1000i: Glucose; RBC, WBC, Epithelial
RBC, WBC, Bilirubin,Ketones, Cells, Cast, Bacteria,
Epithelial, Cast, Specific Gravity, Conductivity
Bacteria, Crystals, Blood, pH, Protein,
Conductivity Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Siemens Clinitek Leukocyte, Creatinine,
Atlas with Atlas 10 Color, Appearance,
Reagent Pak: Crystals
Glucose Bilirubin,
Ketones, Specific
Gravity, Blood, pH,
Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocytes, Color,
Clarity
Open-Vial 30 days 6 weeks at 18-25°C 30 days
Stability 3 months at 2-8°C
Closed-Vial 60 days 2 years 6 months
Stability
Reagents Stabilized UA Control is a liquid Latex Control Particles
mammalian red stable control material
blood cells and white prepared from human
blood cells, stabilized urine. Analyte levels

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities and Differences											
	Item			Device			Predicate 1 (k023928 –			Predicate 2	
							MAS UA Control)			(k080887 – UFII	
										Control)	
Intended
Use			Same			Same			Assayed control
material for evaluating
the accuracy and
precision of automated
procedures that measure
urinary analytes		
Measurands			Sysmex UF-1000i:
RBC, WBC,
Epithelial, Cast,
Bacteria, Crystals,
Conductivity
Siemens Clinitek
Atlas with Atlas 10
Reagent Pak:
Glucose Bilirubin,
Ketones, Specific
Gravity, Blood, pH,
Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocytes, Color,
Clarity			Glucose;
Bilirubin,Ketones,
Specific Gravity,
Blood, pH, Protein,
Urobilinogen, Nitrite,
Leukocyte, Creatinine,
Color, Appearance,
Crystals			RBC, WBC, Epithelial
Cells, Cast, Bacteria,
Conductivity		
Open-Vial
Stability			30 days			6 weeks at 18-25°C
3 months at 2-8°C			30 days		
Closed-Vial
Stability			60 days			2 years			6 months		
Reagents			Stabilized
mammalian red
blood cells and white
blood cells, stabilized			UA Control is a liquid
stable control material
prepared from human
urine. Analyte levels			Latex Control Particles		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities and Differences
Item Device Predicate 1 (k023928– Predicate2
MAS UA Control) (k080887–UFII
Control)
bacteria, and are adjusted with
simulate urine various pure chemicals
sediments in a and human source
preservative medium. materials. UA Control
Analyte levels are also contains
adjusted with preservatives and
appropriate stabilizers.
chemicals.
Storage 2-10°C 2-8°C 2-10°C
Conditions
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP05-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement Methods;
Approved Guideline-Second Edition
L. Test Principle:
UA-Cellular Complete is intended to be run by the clinical laboratory to collectively verify
the performance attributes (i.e. calibration, precision and accuracy) of the intended
instrument platforms, prior to running clinical patient specimens. The comprehensive tri-
level UA-Cellular Complete control serves to align six stabilized urine particle types (i.e. red
blood cells, white blood cells, cast, crystals, bacteria and epithelial) with the ten urine
chemistry parameters.
Level 1-PC Control – Serves as the positive chemistry control for the urine chemistry
parameters that do not align with a corresponding urine particle type (i.e. glucose, bilirubin,
ketones and urobilinogen).
Level 1-PCM Control – Serves as the positive chemistry control for the urine chemistry
parameters that serve to align with a corresponding urine particle type.
Level NC Control – Serves as the true “negative” control for all qualitative and semi-
qualitative urine chemistry measurands and the quantitative urine particle types.
UA-Cellular Complete provides values within the expected ranges indicated on the assay
sheet.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities and Differences											
	Item			Device			Predicate 1 (k023928–			Predicate2	
							MAS UA Control)			(k080887–UFII	
										Control)	
			bacteria, and
simulate urine
sediments in a
preservative medium.
Analyte levels are
adjusted with
appropriate
chemicals.			are adjusted with
various pure chemicals
and human source
materials. UA Control
also contains
preservatives and
stabilizers.					
Storage
Conditions			2-10°C			2-8°C			2-10°C		

--- Page 5 ---
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Value assignment:
Value Assignment for the UA-Cellular® Complete parameters was based on data
collected across three external sites and data collected internally at Streck. Data was
collected across three separately manufactured lots. Each site involved in testing
provided a 10-run reproducibility study for the tri-level control on each lot (n=40 per
level). Four instruments of the Siemens® Clinitek Atlas and Sysmex® UF-1000i™
were utilized to collect data. Four operators were used in the value assignment study.
Assay data collected met the sponsor’s ±3 Standard Deviation requirements.
Stability:
Shelf-Life and Open Vial Stability testing protocols and acceptance criteria were
described and found to be adequate.
Shelf-Life – The 60-day claim was verified in real-time stability studies on the
Sysmex® UF-1000i™ and Siemens® Clinitek Atlas with all three lots of device.
Open-vial – The open-vial stability claim was verified on both the Sysmex® UF-
1000i™ Automated Urine Particle Analyzer and the Siemens® Clinitek Atlas
Automated Urine Chemistry Analyzer using the Clinitek Atlas 10 Reagent Pak.
Open-vial stability testing was performed real-time and is 30 days.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable

--- Page 6 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.