
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k132862
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. k113192 - Healthpro
Blood Glucose Monitoring System.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for 1) to add an additional name to their cleared system: Healthpro Professional
Blood Glucose Monitoring System, 2) adding a patient ID function, 3) a modification of the graphic
design of the test strip cover. Specifically, the test strip was modified by changing the shape of the
arrow indicating the direction to insert the test strip, and by changing the color from blue to silver, 4)
an addition to the name of their cleared controls: Healthpro Professional Glucose Control Solution,
and 5) the addition of validated cleaning and disinfection instructions for multiple-patient use to the
labeling.
3. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
4. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.
5. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the sponsor’s previously cleared device.
The device is intended for multiple-patient use. CaviWipes Disinfecting Towelettes (EPA registration
#46781-8) were validated through disinfection efficacy studies demonstrating complete inactivation of
hepatitis B (HBV) virus using materials comprising the meter. Robustness studies were also performed
by the sponsor demonstrating that there was no change in performance or in the external materials of the
meter after 10,980 cleaning and disinfection cycles (one cycle includes one cleaning wipe plus one
disinfecting wipe) to simulate 3 years of multiple-patient use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate
instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.