
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Review Memorandum
To: Hologic, Inc. (Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc.) RE: K132200
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Prodesse® Pro hMPVTM+ Assay
510(k) number: K123838
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S) to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL
SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The 510k submission contained modifications to the Internal Control.
a. Incorporation of a Universal Internal Control that contains a RNA in vitro transcript (IVT) and a
DNA plasmid;
The current Internal Control (RIC) in Pro hMPV+ Assay contains a RNA in vitro transcript (IVT).
The new Universal Internal Control (UIC-A) will contain a RNA in vitro transcript (IVT) and a DNA
plasmid to allow users to perform one nucleic acid extraction and test with any combination of the
Pro+ Series Assays including ProFlu+, ProhMPV+, ProParaflu+, ProFAST+, and ProAdeno+.
The concentration of the RNA IVT in the Universal Internal Control (UIC-A) is the same as in the
current Internal RNA Control (RIC). Handling of Universal Internal Control is identical to that of
the current Internal RNA Control (RIC) included in the Pro hMPV + Assay.
b. Outsourcing of the manufacturing of the Internal Control and subsequent minor sequence
changes.
Due to the different vector being used in the Universal Internal Control (UIC-A), minor changes
were made to the 5’ and 3’ ends of the UIC-A sequence.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
Similarities
Element Modified Prodesse Pro Current Prodesse Pro hMPV+ Assay
hMPV+ Assay (K123838)
Organisms Same Human metapneumovirus
Detected
Analyte Same RNA
Technological Same Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
Principles
Specimen Same Nasopharyngeal Swab
Types
User Complexity Same High
Sample Preparation Same Up front sample processing is required to
Method extract nucleic acid.

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Similarities										
	Element				Modified Prodesse Pro					Current Prodesse Pro hMPV+ Assay	
					hMPV+ Assay					(K123838)	
Organisms Same Human metapneumovirus
Detected
Analyte Same RNA
Technological Same Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
Principles
Specimen Same Nasopharyngeal Swab
Types
User Complexity Same High
Sample Preparation Same Up front sample processing is required to
Method extract nucleic acid.											

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Instrumentation Same bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG or
Roche MagNA Pure and Cepheid
SmartCycler II Instrument
Time to result Same Approximately 4 hours
Controls Same Internal control in each sample.
External control processed with each
batch of samples.
Positive Control is provided at “at use”
concentration.
Differences
Current Prodesse Pro
Element Modified Pro hMPV+ Assay
hMPV+ Assay
· Universal Internal Control · Internal R(NKA1 1C0ontrol
Controls Internal - Contains DNA plasmid in - Contains9 R6N8)A IVT
addition to RNA IVT
· Control Stocks outsourced · Control stocks
manufactured in house
- Change in manufacturer
leading to a change in
control vector and minor
sequence change at the 5’
and 3’ ends of RNA IVT
5. A Design Control Activities Summary:
a. Identification of Risk Analysis method used to assess the impact of the modification on the device
and its components, and the results of the analysis;
FMEA was performed to determine whether the current design changes create new risks or
failure modes or affect the risk priority number (RPN) value. No additional risk or change in RPN
value was identified in the Risk Analysis.
b. To demonstrate that the modifications in Internal Control do not change the assay performance,
Analytical Studies and a Comparison Study were conducted.
- Analytical Performances:
· Analytical Sensitivity Confirmation
LoD, which was established in K123838 in 2013, was confirmed for hMPV using one
strain of virus when tested with the UIC-A control side by side with the current RIC control.
The LoD was confirmed to be at 1X 100.5 TCID /mL.
50
· IC Interference Study
The IC Interference Study demonstrated that the new control, UIC-A, did not inhibit the
detection of target organisms at levels close to LoD.
· Sample Stability Study
The study demonstrated that the stability of the samples would not be affected by a
change in the internal control.
· Extractor Equivalency Studies
The study for equivalency of nucleic acid extraction methods between the bioMérieux
NucliSENS easyMAG automated extractor and Roche MagNA Pure LC extractor
demonstrated the equivalency between the two extraction methods.

[Table 1 on page 2]
Differences							
					Current Prodesse Pro		
Element		Modified Pro	hMPV+	Assay			
						hMPV+	Assay
							
Controls	Internal	· Universal Internal Control
- Contains DNA plasmid in
addition to RNA IVT
· Control Stocks outsourced
- Change in manufacturer
leading to a change in
control vector and minor
sequence change at the 5’
and 3’ ends of RNA IVT			· Internal R(NKA1 1C0ontrol
- Contains9 R6N8)A IVT
· Control stocks
manufactured in house		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
- Comparison Study:
The comparison study was conducted for all Pro+ Series Assays including ProFlu+, Pro
hMPV+, ProParaflu+, ProFAST+, and ProAdeno+ using 366 positive samples and 66
negative samples. Among the 366 positive samples, 330 were retrospective pre-selected
archived NPS specimens with 30 positive samples per target (11 targets total) and 36 were
contrived samples, generated by spiking individual negative retrospective NPS samples with
whole organism (Influenza A/Seasonal H1 or Parainfluenza 2). Each sample was split into 3
aliquots; one aliquot was tested using the current Internal RNA Control (RIC), one aliquot was
tested using the Universal Internal Control (UIC-A), and one aliquot was tested using the
current Universal Internal Control (UIA-P) for ProAdeno+ Assay. All samples were then split
into 72 panels with 6 samples per panel, extracted and tested by four different operators.
Half of the panel samples were extracted using the bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG method
and the other half using the Roche MagNA Pure LC method. Of the 432 samples utilized in
the study, 19 samples were removed from analysis due to the invalid controls or incomplete
test results. The results for the Pro hMPV+ Assay are summarized in the following table:
Pro hMPV+ Assay Results
Samples with RIC
Positive Negative Total Comments
Samples Percent Positive Agreement
Positive 30 0 30
with UIC- 100% (88.7% - 100%) 95% CI
A
Percent Negative Agreement
Negative 0 383 383
100% (99.0% - 100%) 95% CI
Total 117 383 413
The results of analytical studies and the clinical study confirmed the original performance claims
of the Pro hMPV+ Assay and demonstrated that assay performance was not affected by the
incorporation of the new Universal Internal Control (UIC-A). The Pro hMPV+ Assay package
insert has been updated to reflect the changes in the internal control.
c. A declaration of conformity with design controls was submitted for the manufacturing facility which
includes:
i) A statement signed by the Senior Director of R & D, Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc., was
submitted confirming that, as required by the risk analysis, all verification and validation
activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that
the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A “Declaration of Conformity” statement signed by the Associate Director of Quality and
Regulatory, Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc. was submitted stating that the manufacturing facility
is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30
and the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Pro hMPV+ Assay Results						
			Samples with RIC				
Samples
with UIC-
A			Positive	Negative	Total	Comments	
		Positive	30	0	30	Percent Positive Agreement
100% (88.7% - 100%) 95% CI	
		Negative	0	383	383	Percent Negative Agreement
100% (99.0% - 100%) 95% CI	
Total			117	383	413		

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.