
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Review Memorandum
To: Hologic, Inc. (Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc.) RE: K132159
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Prodesse® ProAdenoTM+ Assay
510(k) number: K102952
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S) to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL
SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The 510k submission contained modifications to the Internal Control and Positive Controls. The
modifications are summarized as follows:
a. Outsourcing of the manufacturing of the Internal Control resulted in minor changes made to the
current Internal Control (UIC-P);
· Modification made to the current Universal Internal Control (UIC-P);
The current Universal Internal Control (UIC-P) in ProAdeno+ Assay contains a dsDNA PCR
product. The modified Universal Internal Control (UIC-A) will contain a RNA in vitro transcript
(IVT) and a DNA plasmid to allow users to perform one nucleic acid extraction and test with
any combination of the Pro+ Series Assays including ProFlu+, ProhMPV+, ProParaflu+,
ProFAST+, and ProAdeno+.
· Minor changes made to the UIC-A sequence;
Due to the different vector being used in the modified Universal Internal Control (UIC-A),
minor changes were made to the 5’ and 3’ ends of the UIC-A sequence.
· The concentration of the dsDNA control is increased from 104 copies/µL to 5 x 104 copies/µL.
Handling of the modified Universal Internal Control is identical to that of the current Universal
Internal Control (UIC-P) included in the ProAdeno+ Assay.
b. The handling of the Positive Controls for the ProAdeno+ Assay will be changed to eliminate the
customer dilution that occurs immediately prior to PCR setup, effectively raising the testing
concentration one log.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
Similarities
Element Modified Prodesse Current Prodesse ProFlu+ Assay
ProFlu+ Assay (K110968)
Organisms Same Human adenovirus
Detected
Analyte Same DNA
Technological Same Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
Principles

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Similarities										
	Element				Modified Prodesse					Current Prodesse ProFlu+ Assay	
					ProFlu+ Assay					(K110968)	
Organisms Same Human adenovirus
Detected
Analyte Same DNA
Technological Same Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
Principles											

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Specimen Same Nasopharyngeal Swab
Types
User Complexity Same High
Sample Preparation Same Up front sample processing is required to
Method extract nucleic acid.
Instrumentation Same bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG or
Roche MagNA Pure and Cepheid
SmartCycler II Instrument
Time to result Same Approximately 3 hours
Controls Same Internal control in each sample.
External control processed with each
batch of samples. (see below for
differences)
Differences
Current Prodesse ProFlu+
Element Modified ProFlu+ Assay
Assay
· Control Stocks outsourced · Control st(oKc1k1s0
Controls Internal - Change in manufacturer manufactu9re6d8 )i n house
leading to change in
control vectors and minor
sequence change at the
5’ and 3’ ends of RNA
IVT and change from
PCR product to plasmid.
- The concentration of the
DNA control was
increased from 104
copies/µL to 5 x 104
copies/µL.
· PC does not require dilution; · End user must dilute PC
Positive - PC is provided as “at use 1:10 prior to use for RT-
concentration” PCR
5. A Design Control Activities Summary:
a. Identification of Risk Analysis method used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device.
FMEA was performed to determine whether the current design changes create new risks or
failure modes or affect the risk priority number (RPN) value. No additional risk or change in RPN
value was identified in the Risk Analysis.
b. To demonstrate that the modifications in Universal Internal Control (UIC-A) do not change the
assay performance, Analytical Studies and a Comparison Study were conducted.
- Analytical Performances:
· Analytical Sensitivity Confirmation
LoD, which was established in K102952 in 2010, was confirmed for Adenovirus using
three strains of adenovirus tested side by side with the modified Universal Internal Control
(UIC-A) and with the current Universal Internal Control (UIC-P). The confirmed LoDs are
as follows:
HAdV-3 1X 100 TCID /mL
50

[Table 1 on page 2]
Differences			
			Current Prodesse ProFlu+
Element		Modified ProFlu+ Assay	
			Assay
			
Controls	Internal	· Control Stocks outsourced
- Change in manufacturer
leading to change in
control vectors and minor
sequence change at the
5’ and 3’ ends of RNA
IVT and change from
PCR product to plasmid.
- The concentration of the
DNA control was
increased from 104
copies/µL to 5 x 104
copies/µL.	· Control st(oKc1k1s0
manufactu9re6d8 )i n house
	Positive	· PC does not require dilution;
- PC is provided as “at use
concentration”	· End user must dilute PC
1:10 prior to use for RT-
PCR

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
HAdV-4 1X 10-1 TCID /mL
50
HAdV-19 1X 100 TCID /mL
50
· IC Interference Study
The IC Interference Study demonstrated that the new control, UIC-A, did not inhibit the
detection of target organisms at levels close to the LoD.
· Sample Stability Study
The study demonstrated that the stability of the samples would not be affected by a
change in the internal control.
· Extractor Equivalency Studies
The equivalency of nucleic acid extraction methods between the bioMérieux NucliSENS
easyMAG automated extractor and Roche MagNA Pure LC extractor were evaluated by
spiking the cultured and tittered strain of HAdV-3 into a negative nasopharyngeal swab
(NPS) matrix pool at the confirmed LoD concentration. The study demonstrated
equivalency between the two extraction methods.
- Comparison Study:
The comparison study was conducted for all Pro+ Series Assays including ProFlu+,
ProhMPV+, ProParaflu+, ProFAST+, and ProAdeno+ using 366 positive samples and 66
negative samples. Among the 366 positive samples, 330 were retrospective pre-selected
archived NPS specimens with 30 positive samples per target (11 targets total) and 36 were
contrived samples, generated by spiking individual negative retrospective NPS samples with
whole organism (Influenza A/Seasonal H1 or Parainfluenza 2). Each sample was split into 3
aliquots; one aliquot was tested using the current Internal RNA Control (RIC), one aliquot was
tested using the new Universal Internal Control (UIC-A), and one aliquot was tested using the
current Universal Internal Control (UIA-P) for ProAdeno+ Assay. All samples were then split
into 72 panels with 6 samples per panel, extracted and tested by four different operators.
Half of the panel samples were extracted using the bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG method
and the other half using the Roche MagNA Pure LC method. The samples spiked with the
current UIC-P and samples spiked with the modified UIC-A were also compared to the
original source laboratory results when the specimens were tested with Luminex RVP. The
study demonstrated that the modified UIC-A did not change the assay performance.
The ProAdeno+ Assay package insert has been updated to reflect the changes in the internal
control.
c. To assess the stability of the modified Universal Internal Control (UIC-A), an accelerated stability
study for the UIC-A stored at -70oC and a freeze-thaw stability study were conducted with one lot
of each assay component. The studies demonstrated that the modified UIC-A can be stored at
the same condition (≤ -70oC for 18 months with up to 2 freeze thaw cycles) as the current
Universal Internal Control (UIC-P).
d. To evaluate whether eliminating customer dilution prior to PCR setup will affect the effectiveness
of the Positive Control at detecting any errors occurred in the FAM (HAdV) Channel, several
defective mixtures that either do not have the Taq polymerase, or do not have enough reverse
primers, or contain a PCR inhibitor, were tested with Positive Control at supplied concentration
without customer dilution. The study demonstrated that the Adenovirus DNA Control used at the
supplied concentration can effectively detect any global errors in the FAM (HAdV) Channel. The
Pro Adeno+ Assay package insert has been updated to reflect the changes in the Positive
Control.

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
e. A declaration of conformity with design controls was submitted for the manufacturing facility which
includes:
i) A statement signed by the Senior Director of R & D, Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc., was
submitted confirming that, as required by the risk analysis, all verification and validation
activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that
the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A “Declaration of Conformity” statement signed by the Associate Director of Quality and
Regulatory, Gen-Probe Prodesse, Inc., was submitted stating that the manufacturing facility
is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30
and the records are available for review.
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.