
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k)
Device Modification Decision Summary
To: BD Diagnostics RE: K132259
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Trade Name: BD Veritor™ System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B POC kit
510(k) number: K111277
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S). The modification presented in this 510(k) is the
inclusion of the H7N9 influenza A virus strain below, to the analytical sensitivity information. The
submitter tested the ability of the BD Veritor System Flu A+B test to detect the H7N9 influenza A
virus. The virus used (A/Anhui/1/2013) was inactivated viral material in clarified allontoic fluid from
chicken eggs obtained from the WHO Collaborating Centre for Surveillance, Epidemiology and
Control of Influenza, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Analytical sensitivity testing was
done at10 fold dilutions from the stock received from CDC and was tested in triplicate using the BD
Veritor System Flu A+B test to establish the approximate level for the LOD:
· 7.94 x 108 CEID /mL
50
· 7.94 x 107 CEID /mL
50
· 7.94 x 106 CEID /mL
50
· 3.97 x 106 CEID /mL
50
· 1.99 x 106 CEID /mL
50
· 7.94 x 105 CEID /mL
50
· 7.94 x 104 CEID /mL
50
(CEID /mL= 50% Chicken Egg Infectious Dose)
50
A final dilution was prepared and tested in replicates of 60:
· 5.42 x 106 CEID /mL
50
The limit of detection of the BD Veritor System Flu A+B test with A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9 was 5.42 x
106 CEID /mL with a positivity of 98.3% (59/60).
50
The BD Veritor System Flu A+B POC kit package insert has been updated to include the additional
analytical sensitivity information.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.

--- Page 2 ---
2
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics:
Similarities
Predicate Device: New Device:
Device
BD Veritor System Flu A+B assay BD Veritor System Flu A+B assay
Characteristics
POC kit (K111277) POC kit (K132256)
The BD Veritor™ System for Rapid The BD Veritor™ System for Rapid
Intended Use Detection of Flu A+B is a rapid Detection of Flu A+B is a rapid
chromatographic immunoassay for chromatographic immunoassay for
the direct and qualitative detection of the direct and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral nucleoprotein influenza A and B viral nucleoprotein
antigens from nasal and antigens from nasopharyngeal and
nasopharyngeal swabs of nasal swabs of symptomatic
symptomatic patients. The BD patients. The BD Veritor System for
Veritor System for Rapid Detection Rapid Detection of Flu A+B is a
of Flu A+B (also referred to as the differentiated test, such that
BD Veritor System and BD Veritor influenza A viral antigens can be
System Flu A+B) is a differentiated distinguished from influenza B viral
test, such that influenza A viral antigens from a single processed
antigens can be distinguished from sample using a single device. The
influenza B viral antigens from a test is to be used as an aid in the
single processed sample using a diagnosis of influenza A and B viral
single device. The test is to be used infections. A negative test is
as an aid in the diagnosis of presumptive and it is recommended
influenza A and B viral infections. A that these results be confirmed by
negative test is presumptive and it is viral culture or an FDA-cleared
recommended that these results be influenza A and B molecular assay.
confirmed by viral culture or an FDA- Negative test results do not preclude
cleared influenza A and B molecular influenza viral infection and should
assay. Negative test results do not not be used as the sole basis for
preclude influenza viral infection and treatment or other patient
should not be used as the sole basis management decisions. The test is
for treatment or other patient not intended to detect influenza C
management decisions. The test is antigens.
not intended to detect influenza C
antigens.
Performance characteristics for Performance characteristics for
influenza A and B were established influenza A and B were established
during January through March of during January through March of
2011 when influenza viruses A/2009 2011 when influenza viruses A/2009
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage, H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage,
and B/Yamagata lineage were the and B/Yamagata lineage were the
predominant influenza viruses in predominant influenza viruses in
circulation according to the Morbidity circulation according to the Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report from and Mortality Weekly Report from
the CDC entitled “Update: Influenza the CDC entitled “Update: Influenza
Activity—United States, 2010-2011 Activity—United States, 2010-2011
Season, and Composition of the Season, and Composition of the
2011-2012 Influenza Vaccine.” 2011-2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics may Performance characteristics may
vary against other emerging vary against other emerging
influenza viruses. influenza viruses.

[Table 1 on page 2]
				Predicate Device:			New Device:	
	Device							
				BD Veritor System Flu A+B assay			BD Veritor System Flu A+B assay	
	Characteristics							
				POC kit (K111277)			POC kit (K132256)	
								
			The BD Veritor™ System for Rapid
Detection of Flu A+B is a rapid
chromatographic immunoassay for
the direct and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral nucleoprotein
antigens from nasal and
nasopharyngeal swabs of
symptomatic patients. The BD
Veritor System for Rapid Detection
of Flu A+B (also referred to as the
BD Veritor System and BD Veritor
System Flu A+B) is a differentiated
test, such that influenza A viral
antigens can be distinguished from
influenza B viral antigens from a
single processed sample using a
single device. The test is to be used
as an aid in the diagnosis of
influenza A and B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive and it is
recommended that these results be
confirmed by viral culture or an FDA-
cleared influenza A and B molecular
assay. Negative test results do not
preclude influenza viral infection and
should not be used as the sole basis
for treatment or other patient
management decisions. The test is
not intended to detect influenza C
antigens.
Performance characteristics for
influenza A and B were established
during January through March of
2011 when influenza viruses A/2009
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage,
and B/Yamagata lineage were the
predominant influenza viruses in
circulation according to the Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report from
the CDC entitled “Update: Influenza
Activity—United States, 2010-2011
Season, and Composition of the
2011-2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics may
vary against other emerging
influenza viruses.			The BD Veritor™ System for Rapid
Detection of Flu A+B is a rapid
chromatographic immunoassay for
the direct and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral nucleoprotein
antigens from nasopharyngeal and
nasal swabs of symptomatic
patients. The BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu A+B is a
differentiated test, such that
influenza A viral antigens can be
distinguished from influenza B viral
antigens from a single processed
sample using a single device. The
test is to be used as an aid in the
diagnosis of influenza A and B viral
infections. A negative test is
presumptive and it is recommended
that these results be confirmed by
viral culture or an FDA-cleared
influenza A and B molecular assay.
Negative test results do not preclude
influenza viral infection and should
not be used as the sole basis for
treatment or other patient
management decisions. The test is
not intended to detect influenza C
antigens.
Performance characteristics for
influenza A and B were established
during January through March of
2011 when influenza viruses A/2009
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage,
and B/Yamagata lineage were the
predominant influenza viruses in
circulation according to the Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report from
the CDC entitled “Update: Influenza
Activity—United States, 2010-2011
Season, and Composition of the
2011-2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics may
vary against other emerging
influenza viruses.		
	Intended Use							
								

--- Page 3 ---
3
If infection with a novel influenza If infection with a novel influenza
virus is suspected based on current virus is suspected based on current
clinical and epidemiological clinical and epidemiological
screening criteria recommended by screening criteria recommended by
public health authorities, specimens public health authorities, specimens
should be collected with appropriate should be collected with appropriate
infection control precautions for infection control precautions for
novel virulent influenza viruses and novel virulent influenza viruses and
sent to the state or local health sent to the state or local health
department for testing. Virus culture department for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in these should not be attempted in these
cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is
available to receive and culture available to receive and culture
specimens. specimens
Specimen
Nasal and nasopharyngeal swab Nasal and nasopharyngeal swab
Types
Assay
Immunochromotographic Immunochromotographic
Technology
An opto-electronic reader determines An opto-electronic reader determines
the line intensity at each of the the line intensity at each of the
spatially-defined test and control line spatially-defined test and control line
Detection positions, interprets the results using positions, interprets the results using
Format the scoring algorithm, and reports a the scoring algorithm, and reports a
positive, negative, or invalid result on positive, negative, or invalid result on
the LCD screen based on pre-set the LCD screen based on pre-set
thresholds. thresholds.
Qualitative Yes Yes
Total Assay
Approximately 10 minutes Approximately 10 minutes
Time
• Kit Flu A+/B- dry swab procedural • Kit Flu A+/B- dry swab procedural
control control
Control • Kit Flu B+/A- dry swab procedural • Kit Flu B+/A- dry swab procedural
format control control
• Intemal positive control • Intemal positive control
• Intemal negative control • Intemal negative control
Detection of
Differentiated influenza A and Differentiated influenza A and
Flu A and B
influenza B influenza B
viruses
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include detection of the following H7N9 virus in the
analytical sensitivity information section and strain reactivity tables:
A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9
And a disclaimer: “Although this test has been shown to detect the novel avian influenza A(H7N9)
cultured virus, the performance characteristics of this device with clinical specimens that are
positive for the novel avian influenza A(H7N9) virus have not been established. The BD Veritor
System Flu A+B test can distinguish between influenza A and B viruses, but it cannot differentiate
influenza A subtypes.”
6. Design Control Activities Summary:

[Table 1 on page 3]
			If infection with a novel influenza
virus is suspected based on current
clinical and epidemiological
screening criteria recommended by
public health authorities, specimens
should be collected with appropriate
infection control precautions for
novel virulent influenza viruses and
sent to the state or local health
department for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in these
cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is
available to receive and culture
specimens.	If infection with a novel influenza
virus is suspected based on current
clinical and epidemiological
screening criteria recommended by
public health authorities, specimens
should be collected with appropriate
infection control precautions for
novel virulent influenza viruses and
sent to the state or local health
department for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in these
cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is
available to receive and culture
specimens
	Specimen		Nasal and nasopharyngeal swab	Nasal and nasopharyngeal swab
	Types			
			Immunochromotographic	Immunochromotographic
	Assay			
	Technology			
				
			An opto-electronic reader determines
the line intensity at each of the
spatially-defined test and control line
positions, interprets the results using
the scoring algorithm, and reports a
positive, negative, or invalid result on
the LCD screen based on pre-set
thresholds.	An opto-electronic reader determines
the line intensity at each of the
spatially-defined test and control line
positions, interprets the results using
the scoring algorithm, and reports a
positive, negative, or invalid result on
the LCD screen based on pre-set
thresholds.
	Detection			
	Format			
				
	Qualitative		Yes	Yes
	Total Assay		Approximately 10 minutes	Approximately 10 minutes
	Time			
			• Kit Flu A+/B- dry swab procedural
control
• Kit Flu B+/A- dry swab procedural
control
• Intemal positive control
• Intemal negative control	• Kit Flu A+/B- dry swab procedural
control
• Kit Flu B+/A- dry swab procedural
control
• Intemal positive control
• Intemal negative control
	Control			
	format			
				
	Detection of		Differentiated influenza A and
influenza B	Differentiated influenza A and
influenza B
	Flu A and B			
	viruses			

--- Page 4 ---
4
Analytical Sensitivity Testing was conducted as described in section 7, “Summary of Studies”.
Declaration of Conformity to Design Control
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Director, Regulatory Affairs and Quality Systems. The statements indicate
that;
1. The verification activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were performed by
the designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance
criteria were met.
2. The manufacturing facility, BD Rapid Diagnostics Co Ltd, is in conformance with the design
control requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820. 30 and the records are available for review.
In conclusion, based on both the results of the analytical sensitivity testing and the risk management
report, the modified labeling is truthful and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of
the test and it is therefore substantially equivalent to the current cleared test.
7. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary, and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. On this basis, I recommend
the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.