
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: Alere Scarborough Inc. RE: K133411
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Alere BinaxNOW® Influenza A & B Card
510(k) number: K092223
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. Description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
The modification presented in this special 510(k) consisted of expanded reactivity table to include
reactivity information for the H7N9 influenza A virus. The firm tested the ability of the BinaxNOW
Influenza A & B Card to detect H7N9 influenza A virus. The virus used (A/Anhui/1/2013) was
obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as non-infectious beta-propiolactone
inactivated virus. A reactivity study was performed with the A/Anhui/1/2013 influenza strain at three
different dilutions run in triplicate. Each result was interpreted by two operators for a total of six
determinations per dilution. The lowest level that generated positive results in all six determinations
was identified as the reactivity concentration.
The reactivity concentration was determined to be 1.94 x 106 EID /ml. The BinaxNOW Influenza A
50
& B package insert has been updated to include the additional analytical reactivity information.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information
Similarities
Predicate Device Modified Device
Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card
(K092223) (K133411)
The Alere BinaxNOW® Influenza A & B The Alere BinaxNOW® Influenza A & B
Card is an in vitro immunochromatographic Card is an in vitro
Intended assay for the qualitative detection of immunochromatographic assay for the
Use influenza A and B nucleoprotein antigens in qualitative detection of influenza A and B
nasopharyngeal (NP) swab, nasal swab, and nucleoprotein antigens in
nasal wash/aspirate specimens. It is nasopharyngeal (NP) swab, nasal swab,

[Table 1 on page 1]
		Predicate Device			Modified Device	
						
	Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card
(K092223)			Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card
(K133411)		
Intended
Use	The Alere BinaxNOW® Influenza A & B
Card is an in vitro immunochromatographic
assay for the qualitative detection of
influenza A and B nucleoprotein antigens in
nasopharyngeal (NP) swab, nasal swab, and
nasal wash/aspirate specimens. It is			The Alere BinaxNOW® Influenza A & B
Card is an in vitro
immunochromatographic assay for the
qualitative detection of influenza A and B
nucleoprotein antigens in
nasopharyngeal (NP) swab, nasal swab,		

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3
intended to aid in the rapid differential and nasal wash/aspirate specimens. It
diagnosis of influenza A and B viral is intended to aid in the rapid differential
infections. Negative test results should be diagnosis of influenza A and B viral
confirmed by cell culture. infections. Negative test results are
presumptive and should be confirmed by
cell culture or an FDA-cleared influenza
Caution: Assay sensitivity for nasal
A and B molecular assay. Negative test
wash/aspirate samples was determined
results do not preclude influenza viral
primarily using archived specimens.
infection and should not be used as the
Users may wish to establish the sensitivity
sole basis for treatment or other patient
of these specimens on fresh samples.
management decisions.
Caution: Assay sensitivity for nasal
wash/aspirate samples was determined
primarily using archived specimens. Users
may wish to establish the sensitivity of
these specimens on fresh samples.
Organism
Influenza A virus and Influenza B virus Same
Detected
Specimen Nasopharyngeal swabs, nasal swabs,
Same
Types nasal wash/aspirates
Device
Lateral flow immunochromatography Same
Technology
Detection Solid phase immobilized nucleoprotein
specific antibodies Same
Mechanism
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include detection of the A/Anhui/1/2013 H7N9 virus in
the analytical reactivity information section:
A/Anhui/1/2013 - A - H7N9 - 1.94x106EID /mL
50
Although this test has been shown to detect H7N9 virus cultured from positive human respiratory
specimens, the performance characteristics of this device with clinical specimens that are
positive for H7N9 influenza viruses have not been established. The BinaxNOW Influenza A & B
Card can distinguish between influenza A and B viruses, but it cannot differentiate influenza A
subtypes.
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
Analytical Reactivity Testing was conducted as described on Page 57 of the submission, “Analytical
Reactivity”.
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Senior Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs. The statements
indicate that:
1. The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements
as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.

[Table 1 on page 2]
	intended to aid in the rapid differential
diagnosis of influenza A and B viral
infections. Negative test results should be
confirmed by cell culture.
Caution: Assay sensitivity for nasal
wash/aspirate samples was determined
primarily using archived specimens.
Users may wish to establish the sensitivity
of these specimens on fresh samples.	and nasal wash/aspirate specimens. It
is intended to aid in the rapid differential
diagnosis of influenza A and B viral
infections. Negative test results are
presumptive and should be confirmed by
cell culture or an FDA-cleared influenza
A and B molecular assay. Negative test
results do not preclude influenza viral
infection and should not be used as the
sole basis for treatment or other patient
management decisions.
Caution: Assay sensitivity for nasal
wash/aspirate samples was determined
primarily using archived specimens. Users
may wish to establish the sensitivity of
these specimens on fresh samples.
Organism
Detected	Influenza A virus and Influenza B virus	Same
Specimen
Types	Nasopharyngeal swabs, nasal swabs,
nasal wash/aspirates	Same
Device
Technology	Lateral flow immunochromatography	Same
Detection
Mechanism	Solid phase immobilized nucleoprotein
specific antibodies	Same

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3
2. The validation activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were
performed by the designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the
predetermined acceptance criteria were met.
In conclusion, based on the results of the analytical reactivity testing the modified labeling is truthful
and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of the test and it is therefore substantially
equivalent to the current cleared test.
7. Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.