
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Decision Summary
To: Becton, Dickinson and Company RE: K133140
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class I device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Trade Name: BD Veritor™ System RSV assay
510(k) number: k121633
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S). The modification presented in this 510(k) consisted
of adding a procedure for using the obtained clinical specimen to run the BD Veritor™
System RSV assay in addition to the Flu A+B assay, both assays will be performed
separately, but using a single nasopharyngeal aspirate/wash or nasopharyngeal swab in
transport media. The following text and accompanying diagrams were added to the package insert:
ALTERNATIVE TEST PROCEDURE
USE OF BD VERITOR SYSTEM FOR RAPID DETECTION OF BD VERITOR SYSTEM FOR RAPID DETECTION OF RSV (CAT# 256042) and
INFLUENZA A+B (CAT# 256041 ) FROM A SINGLE NP WASH, ASPIRATE OR SWAB SPECIMEN IN TRANSPORT MEDIA
USE THIS PROCEDURE IF BOTH RSV AND INFLUENZA ARE TO BE TESTED FROM A SINGLE PATIENT
IMPORTANT NOTE: THE SAMPLE MAY BE TESTED UP TO 15 MINUTES AFTER PROCESSING.
NOTES: Reagents, specimens and devices must be at room temperature (15–30°C) for testing. Thoroughly mix all specimens prior to removal of
an aliquot for processing. Do not centrifuge specimens.
Note: The BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B (CAT #256041) is required for this procedure.
1. For each patient specimen and control swab, remove one RV
Reagent C tube/tip and one BD Veritor System RSV device
and one BD Veritor System Flu A+B from its foil pouch
immediately before testing.
2. Label the BD Veritor System devices and one RV Reagent
C tube for each specimen and control to be tested.
3. Place the labeled RV Reagent C tube(s) in the designated
area of the tube rack.
4. Vortex or thoroughly mix specimen. Do not centrifuge.
5. 2. Remove and discard the cap from the RV Reagent C tube
corresponding to the sample to be tested.
6. Using the transfer pipette, transfer 300 μL of specimen into
the RV Reagent C tube. Discard pipette after use.

--- Page 2 ---
2
7. Press the attached tip firmly onto the RV Reagent C tube
containing the processed specimen or control
(threading/twisting not required).
NOTE: Do not use tips from any other product, including other
products from BD or other manufacturers.
8. Vortex or mix thoroughly.
9. Invert the RV Reagent C tube and hold the tube vertically
(approximately one inch above the BD Veritor System RSV
device sample well). Holding the tube at the ridged area,
squeeze gently allowing three (3) drops of the processed
sample to be dispensed into the sample well of the
appropriately labeled BD Veritor System RSV device.
NOTE: Squeezing the tube too close to the tip may cause leakage.
10. Continue to test for Flu A+B. Invert the RV Reagent C tube
and hold the tube vertically (approximately one inch above the
BD Veritor System Flu A+B device sample well). Holding the
tube at the ridged area, squeeze gently allowing three (3)
drops of the processed sample to be dispensed into the
sample well of the appropriately labeled BD Veritor System
Flu A+B device.
NOTE: Squeezing the tube too close to the tip may cause leakage.
11. After adding the sample, allow the tests to run for
10 minutes before inserting into the reader.
12. When the test is ready, insert the BD Veritor System RSV
device into the BD Veritor System Reader. (The BD Veritor
System Reader should be powered-on prior to use and will
indicate when it is ready for insertion of the BD Veritor
System device.)
13. Follow the reader on-screen prompts to complete the
procedure and obtain the test result
13. After the RSV result is obtained and recorded, insert the BD B
Veritor System Flu A+B device into the BD Veritor System
Reader.
14. Follow the reader on-screen prompts to complete the
procedure and obtain the test result
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics:
Similarities
Item Proposed Device Proposed Device

[Table 1 on page 2]
Item	Proposed Device	Proposed Device

--- Page 3 ---
3
Features BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B assay BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B
assay
Intended Use The BD VeritorTM System for Rapid Same.
Detection of Respiratory Syncytial Virus
(RSV) is a chromatographic
immunoassay with an instrumented read
for the direct and qualitative detection of
RSV antigen from nasopharyngeal
washes/aspirates and nasopharyngeal
swabs in transport media from patients
suspected of having a viral respiratory
infection. This test is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use to aid in the diagnosis of
RSV infections in infants and pediatric
patients under the age of 20 years.
Negative results do not preclude RSV
infection and should not be used as the
sole basis for treatment or for other
management decisions. A negative test
is presumptive. It is recommended that
negative test results be confirmed by viral
cell culture or an alternative method,
such as a FDA-cleared molecular assay.
The test is intended for professional and
laboratory use. It is to be used in
conjunction with the BD VeritorTM System
Reader.
Read Results BD Veritor™ System Reader BD Veritor™ System Reader
Specimen nasopharyngeal swab in transport media, nasopharyngeal swab in
Types nasal aspirate, and nasal wash transport media, nasal aspirate,
and nasal wash
Read Result 10 minutes 10 minutes
Time
External Test kit contains Positive and Negative Test kit contains Positive and
Controls Control swabs Negative Control swabs
Differences
The package insert has been updated to include an additional procedure for using the
obtained clinical specimen to run the BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B assay in addition to
the RSV assay. Both assays will be performed separately, but using a single
nasopharyngeal aspirate/wash or nasopharyngeal swab in transport media.
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
a) Analytical Reactivity Testing was conducted as described in section 3, Device Modifications.
b) Declaration of Conformity
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the manufacturing facility and validation
activities and signed by the Director of Quality Assurance and the Senior Director of Technical
Operations respectively. The statements indicate that;

[Table 1 on page 3]
Features	BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B assay	BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B
assay
Intended Use	The BD VeritorTM System for Rapid
Detection of Respiratory Syncytial Virus
(RSV) is a chromatographic
immunoassay with an instrumented read
for the direct and qualitative detection of
RSV antigen from nasopharyngeal
washes/aspirates and nasopharyngeal
swabs in transport media from patients
suspected of having a viral respiratory
infection. This test is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use to aid in the diagnosis of
RSV infections in infants and pediatric
patients under the age of 20 years.
Negative results do not preclude RSV
infection and should not be used as the
sole basis for treatment or for other
management decisions. A negative test
is presumptive. It is recommended that
negative test results be confirmed by viral
cell culture or an alternative method,
such as a FDA-cleared molecular assay.
The test is intended for professional and
laboratory use. It is to be used in
conjunction with the BD VeritorTM System
Reader.	Same.
Read Results	BD Veritor™ System Reader	BD Veritor™ System Reader
Specimen
Types	nasopharyngeal swab in transport media,
nasal aspirate, and nasal wash	nasopharyngeal swab in
transport media, nasal aspirate,
and nasal wash
Read Result
Time	10 minutes	10 minutes
External
Controls	Test kit contains Positive and Negative
Control swabs	Test kit contains Positive and
Negative Control swabs

--- Page 4 ---
4
1. The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as
specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
2. The validation activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were performed by
the designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance
criteria were met.
In conclusion, based on the results of the analytical reactivity testing the modified labeling is truthful
and accurate. The changes do not affect the performance of the test and it is therefore substantially
equivalent to the current cleared test.
7. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary, and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. On this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.