
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k133330
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared devices.
Predicate Device 510(k) number
C.f.a.s. Proteins k080607
C.f.a.s. PAC k040245
PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2 k102016
Precinorm Protein and Precipath Protein k981401
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed. The
changes were:
1) The source of the Antistreptolysin O was changed from human to sheep for all four devices:
C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for automated systems) Proteins, C.f.a.s. PAC (Prealbumin- Antistreptolysin-
Ceruloplasmin), PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2 (PCCC), and Precinorm Protein (PNP) and
Precipath Protein (PPP).
2) For the C.f.a.s. PAC device, Ceruloplasmin and Prealbumin were removed.
3) For the PCCC device, Ferritin was added.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, constituents, and performance characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
c) A declaration of conformity with design controls. The declaration of conformity should include:
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the
results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met, and
ii) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in
conformance with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and
the records are available for review.

[Table 1 on page 1]
Predicate Device	510(k) number
C.f.a.s. Proteins	k080607
C.f.a.s. PAC	k040245
PreciControl ClinChem Multi 1 and 2	k102016
Precinorm Protein and Precipath Protein	k981401

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
6. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for
Use Enclosure (and Class III Summary for Class III devices).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.