
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K140957
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Applied Spectral Imaging Ltd., GenASIs HiPath IHC Family
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Computer-assisted image analysis algorithm for scoring immunohistochemically stained HER2/neu
slides, estrogen receptor (ER)/progesterone receptor (PR) slides, and ki67 slides. The image analysis
algorithm scoring is confirmed by the pathologist before reporting the scores.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family, including software is designed to assist the qualified
pathologist in the consistent assessment in immohistochemnically stained histologic
sections from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissues. The device
consists of a slide capture camera, microscope, computer, monitor, keyboard, mouse,
image analysis algorithms for specific immunohistochemical markers, and software with
a Graphic User Interface (GUI).
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family is an intranet-based, software application that allows
pathology laboratories, to acquire, manage, view, analyze, share, and report test results of
pathology specimens. Using the GenASIs HiPath IHC Family software the pathologist
can view captured images, add annotations, make measurements, perform image analysis
and generate reports.
Hardware: A camera based acquisition device designed to captures bright-field
microscope digital images of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded breast tissues that are
suitable for storage and viewing. The device includes a digital slide acquisition camera,
X-Y Stage with holder adaptor for loading glass slides on a microscope and a workstation
including a computer, keyboard, mouse and monitor.
Software: The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family software is designed to complement the
1

--- Page 2 ---
routine workflow of a qualified pathologist in the review of specific
immunohistochemically stained FFPE breast histologic slides. It allows the user to select
fields of view (FOVs) in the digital image for analysis and provides quantitative data on
these FOVs to assist with interpretation. The software makes no independent
interpretations of the data and requires competent human intervention for all steps in the
analysis process.
2. Principles of Operation:
The pathologist selects the ROI (Region Of Interest) of the immunohistochemically
stained glass slides by using the review microscope. The desired ROI of the glass slide is
digitized by an image acquisition system and an Image Analysis scoring algorithm is
applied on the digitized image. The image analysis application score is presented to the
pathologist on the screen who must verify agreement with the Image Analysis software
application score by manually reviewing the slide under the optical microscope.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ___X____ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ___X_____
4. Specimen Identification:
Glass slides are identified by slide label.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen glass slides are mounted manually on the microscope by the pathologist to be
imaged by the camera mounted on the microscope.
6. Calibration:
Camera White Balance: The image acquisition program automatically adjusts white
balance for each image it acquires.
7. Quality Control:
Performed by the operator as part of the standard operation
2

--- Page 3 ---
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §864.1860 Immunohistochemistry reagents and kits
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
NQN - Microscope, Automated, Image Analysis, Immunohistochemistry, Operator
Intervention, Nuclear Intensity & Percent Positivity
NOT - Microscope, Automated, Image Analysis, Operator Intervention
4. Panel:
Pathology (88)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family provides image capture, management, analysis, and
viewing of specific immunohistochemically stained slides. It is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to the pathologist in the display, detection, counting, review and
classification of tissues and cells of clinical interest based on particular morphology,
color, intensity, size, pattern and shape:
1. The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for HER2 (4B5) is for image capture and analysis
applications. This particular system is intended for use as an aid to the pathologist in the
detection and semi-quantitative measurement of HER2 protein in formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue. This device is an accessory to Ventana Medical
Systems, Inc. PATHWAY® anti-HER2/neu (4B5) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody. The PATHWAY® anti-HER2/neu (4B5) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody is indicated for use as an aid in the assessment of breast cancer patients for
whom HERCEPTIN® (Trastuzumab) treatment is being considered.
3

--- Page 4 ---
NOTE: The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for HER2 (4B5) image capture and analysis
applications are adjunctive computer-assisted methodologies for the qualified pathologist
in the acquisition and semi-quantitative measurement of images from microscope glass
slides of breast cancer specimens stained for the presence of HER-2/neu receptor protein.
The pathologist should verify agreement with the Image Analysis software application
score by reviewing the glass slide under the microscope. The accuracy of the test results
depends on the quality of the immuohistochemical staining. It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ appropriate morphological studies and controls as
specified in the instructions for the PATHWAY® anti-HER-2/neu (4B5) Rabbit
Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay used to assure the validity of the GenASIs HiPath
IHC Family for HER2 (4B5) image capture and analysis scores. The actual correlation of
PATHWAY® anti-HER-2/neu (4B5) to clinical outcome has not been established.
2. The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for PR (1E2) is for image capture and analysis
applications. This particular system is intended for use as an aid to the pathologist in the
detection and qualitative measurement of progesterone receptor (PR) protein in formalin-
fixed, paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue. This device is an accessory to Ventana
Medical Systems, Inc. CONFIRMTM anti-Progesterone Receptor (PR) (1E2) Rabbit
Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay. The CONFIRMTM anti-Progesterone Receptor
(PR) (1E2) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay is indicated for use as an aid in
the assessment of breast cancer patients for whom endocrine treatment is being
considered (but is not the sole basis for treatment).
Note: The GenASIs HiPath IHC for PR (1E2) image capture and analysis applications are
adjunctive computer-assisted methodologies for the qualified pathologist in the
acquisition and qualitative measurement of images from microscope glass slides of breast
cancer specimens stained for the presence of PR protein. The pathologist should verify
agreement with the Image Analysis software application score by reviewing the glass
slide under the microscope. The accuracy of the test results depends on the quality of the
immunohistochemical staining. It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate morphological studies and controls as specified in the instructions for
the CONFIRMTM anti-Progesterone Receptor (PR) (1E2) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody used to assure the validity of the GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for PR (1E2)
image capture and analysis scores. The actual correlation of CONFIRMTM anti-PR
antibody to clinical outcome has not been established.
3. The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for ER (SP1) is for image capture and analysis
applications. The particular system is intended for use as an aid to the pathologist in the
detection and qualitative measurement of ER (SP1): protein in formalin-fixed, paraffin-
embedded breast cancer tissue. This device is an accessory to the Ventana Medical
Systems, Inc. CONFIRMTM anti-Estrogen Receptor (ER) (SP1) Rabbit Monoclonal
Primary Antibody. The Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. CONFIRMTM anti-Estrogen
Receptor (ER) (SP1) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody is indicated for use as an aid
in the assessment of ER status in breast cancer patients (but is not the sole basis for
treatment).
4

--- Page 5 ---
Note: The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for ER (SP1) image capture and analysis
applications are adjunctive computer-assisted methodologies for the qualified pathologist
in the acquisition and qualitative measurement of images from microscope glass slides of
breast cancer specimens stained for the presence of ER protein. The pathologist should
verify agreement with the Image Analysis software application score by reviewing the
glass slide under the microscope. The accuracy of the test results depends on the quality
of the immuohistochemical staining. It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate morphological studies and controls as specified in the instructions for
the CONFIRMTM anti-Estrogen Receptor (ER) (SP1) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary
Antibody to assure the validity of the GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for ER (SP1) image
capture and analysis scores. The actual correlation of CONFIRMTM anti-Estrogen
Receptor (ER) (SP1) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody to clinical outcome has not
been established.
4. The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9) is for image capture and analysis
applications. The particular system is intended for use as an aid to the pathologist in the
detection and qualitative measurement of Ki67 (30-9): protein in formalin-fixed, paraffin-
embedded breast cancer tissue. This device is an accessory to the Ventana Medical
Systems, Inc. CONFIRMTM anti-Ki67 (30-9) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody
assay. The Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. CONFIRMTM anti-Ki67 (30-9) assay is
indicated for use in assessing the proliferative activity of breast cancer tissue. When used
with this assay, the GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9) is indicated for use as
an aid in the assessment of Ki-67 status in breast cancer patients (but is not the sole basis
for treatment).
Note: The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9) image capture and analysis
applications are adjunctive computer-assisted methodologies for the qualified pathologist
in the acquisition and qualitative measurement of images from microscope glass slides of
breast cancer specimens stained for the presence of Ki67 protein. The pathologist should
verify agreement with the Image Analysis software application score by reviewing the
glass slide under the microscope. The accuracy of the test results depends on the quality
of the immunohistochemical staining. It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate morphological studies and controls as specified in the instructions for
the CONFIRMTM anti-Ki67 (30-9) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody assay to
assure the validity of the GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9) image capture and
analysis scores. The actual correlation of CONFIRMTM anti-Ki67 (30-9) Rabbit
Monoclonal Primary antibody assay to clinical outcome has not been established.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
· For prescription use only.
· Results acquired using this product must always be reviewed by a qualified
Pathologist by reviewing the slides under the microscope.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
5

--- Page 6 ---
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Virtuoso™ System by Ventana Digital Pathology, K111543 (HER2), K111869 (PR),
K130515 (ER) and K111755 (Ki67)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family Same
provides image capture,
management, analysis, and
viewing.
Intended Use Intended for in vitro diagnostic use Same
as an aid to the pathologist in the
display, detection, counting,
review and classification of tissues
and cells of clinical interest based
on particular morphology, color,
intensity, size, pattern and shape.
Intended for use as an aid to the
pathologist in the detection and
qualitative or semi-quantitative
measurement of HER2, PR, ER
and Ki67 (30-9) protein in
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
normal and neoplastic tissue.
Indicated as an aid to pathologists
in the assessment of HER2, PR,
ER and Ki67 (30-9) status in
breast cancer patients
ROI Selection Image and Region Of Interest Same
(ROI) selected by the pathologist
Scoring Algorithm Based cells classification, an Same
overall score for the image is
computed using the numbers of
stained cells, non-stained cells,
and total cells for the calculations.
Main SW processes • Control of man-machine Same
Interface
• Slide Acquisition/ Capture
• Handling the images display,
storage, communication and
reporting.
• Image manipulation
• Calibration and Quality Control
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family
provides image capture,
management, analysis, and
viewing.			Same		
Intended Use			Intended for in vitro diagnostic use
as an aid to the pathologist in the
display, detection, counting,
review and classification of tissues
and cells of clinical interest based
on particular morphology, color,
intensity, size, pattern and shape.
Intended for use as an aid to the
pathologist in the detection and
qualitative or semi-quantitative
measurement of HER2, PR, ER
and Ki67 (30-9) protein in
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
normal and neoplastic tissue.
Indicated as an aid to pathologists
in the assessment of HER2, PR,
ER and Ki67 (30-9) status in
breast cancer patients			Same		
ROI Selection			Image and Region Of Interest
(ROI) selected by the pathologist			Same		
Scoring Algorithm			Based cells classification, an
overall score for the image is
computed using the numbers of
stained cells, non-stained cells,
and total cells for the calculations.			Same		
Main SW processes			• Control of man-machine
Interface
• Slide Acquisition/ Capture
• Handling the images display,
storage, communication and
reporting.
• Image manipulation
• Calibration and Quality Control			Same		

--- Page 7 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
• allows the user to select fields
of view (FOVs)
• Provides quantitative data on
these FOVs to assist with
interpretation
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Specimen Identification Identified by slide label. Identified by slide label or
barcode.
Slide loading Manually by pathologist Multi-slide automatic
loading
Calibration Camera White Balance. The Tests must be run with nine
image acquisition program custom slides calibrated for
automatically adjusts white the module which can be
balance for each image it obtained from the sponsor.
acquires.
Quality Control Performed by the operator Performed by the operator
as part of the standard before releasing the images
operation procedures. to the pathologist for
review. Slides with sub-
optimal images will be
rescanned
Slide acquisition/ Capture CCD high resolution color Digital slide bright field
camera and racks for scanner (Ventana iScan)
loading the glass slides. and racks for loading glass
Images to be processed slides.
selected via microscope’s Images to be processed
eyepiece. selected from the screen
digital read image.
Device Components Microscope, CCD color Digital slide scanner, PC,
camera, PC, keyboard, keyboard, Mouse, color
Mouse, Color Monitor, X-Y Monitor, racks for loading
stage and rack for loading 1 up to 160 glass slides.
glass slide.
Illumination Method Xenon Lamp Integrated LED (part of the
Slide scanner)
ROI Selection Image and Region Of Region of Interest (ROI)
Interest (ROI) selected by selected by the pathologist
the pathologist using the using the digital read image
microscope’s eyepiece. on the screen.
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			• allows the user to select fields
of view (FOVs)
• Provides quantitative data on
these FOVs to assist with
interpretation					

[Table 2 on page 7]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Specimen Identification			Identified by slide label.			Identified by slide label or
barcode.		
Slide loading			Manually by pathologist			Multi-slide automatic
loading		
Calibration			Camera White Balance. The
image acquisition program
automatically adjusts white
balance for each image it
acquires.			Tests must be run with nine
custom slides calibrated for
the module which can be
obtained from the sponsor.		
Quality Control			Performed by the operator
as part of the standard
operation procedures.			Performed by the operator
before releasing the images
to the pathologist for
review. Slides with sub-
optimal images will be
rescanned		
Slide acquisition/ Capture			CCD high resolution color
camera and racks for
loading the glass slides.
Images to be processed
selected via microscope’s
eyepiece.			Digital slide bright field
scanner (Ventana iScan)
and racks for loading glass
slides.
Images to be processed
selected from the screen
digital read image.		
Device Components			Microscope, CCD color
camera, PC, keyboard,
Mouse, Color Monitor, X-Y
stage and rack for loading 1
glass slide.			Digital slide scanner, PC,
keyboard, Mouse, color
Monitor, racks for loading
up to 160 glass slides.		
Illumination Method			Xenon Lamp			Integrated LED (part of the
Slide scanner)		
ROI Selection			Image and Region Of
Interest (ROI) selected by
the pathologist using the
microscope’s eyepiece.			Region of Interest (ROI)
selected by the pathologist
using the digital read image
on the screen.		

--- Page 8 ---
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. Guidance for Industry “Guidance for Submission of Immunohistochemistry Applications
to the FDA”, dated June 3 1998.
2. CLSI I/LA28-A2Q:2009 - Quality assurance for design control and implementation of
immunohistochemistry assays; approved guidelines-second edition. (InVitro
Diagnostics).
3. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: “Statistical Guidance on Reporting Results from
Studies Evaluating Diagnostic Tests”; March 2007.
4. “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submission for Software Contained in Medical
Device”, CDRH, May 2005.
5. Guidance for Industry, Clinical Investigators, Institutional Review Boards and Food and
Drug Administration Staff, Doc. 1776 dated November 2013
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for ER (SP1)
Table 1 presents frequency distribution of the study cases and final outcome by
manual and GenASIs HiPath IHC Family reading by site and pooled over all three
sites.
Table 1 ER Results: Manual versus GenASIs HiPath IHC 3x3 Frequency Distribution
Table 2 includes ER 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three sites,
8

--- Page 9 ---
along with the corresponding PPA, NPA, and OA, and their 95% two-sided Exact
Binomial confidence intervals.
Table 2 ER 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three sites
The lower limit of 95% confidence intervals for pooled overall centers results is 98%,
96% and 98% for overall, negative and positive agreements respectively. They are
above the pre-specified acceptance criteria of 90%.
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for PR (1E2)
Table 3 presents frequency distribution of the study cases and final outcome by
manual and GenASIs HiPath IHC Family reading by site and pooled over all three
sites.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Table 3 PR Results: Manual versus GenASIs HiPath IHC 3x3 Frequency Distribution
Table 4 includes PR 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three
sites, along with the corresponding PPA, NPA, and OA, and their 95% two- sided
Exact Binomial confidence intervals.
Table 4 PR 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three sites
The lower limit of 95% confidence intervals for pooled overall centers results is 97%,
95% and 98% for overall, negative and positive agreements respectively. They are
above the pre-specified acceptance criteria of 90%.
10

--- Page 11 ---
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9)
Table 5 presents Ki67 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three
sites, along with the corresponding PPA, NPA, OA and their 95% two- sided Exact
Binomial confidence intervals. A 10% threshold is used for the definition of negative
and positive classes.
Table 5 Ki67 2x2 accuracy statistics for each site and pooled over all three sites
The lower limit of 95% confidence intervals for pooled results overall centers is 93%,
87% and 94% for overall, negative and positive agreements respectively.
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for HER2 (4B5)
The following tables (6-8) present frequency distribution of agreement between
manual count and the system output where the outcome is summarized in three
ways—two-level outcome (positive / negative), three-level outcome (positive /
equivocal / negative) and four-level outcome (positive / equivocal / negative class 1+
/ negative class 0). The distribution is given by center and overall. The corresponding
PPA, NPA and OA, and their 95% two- sided Exact Binomial confidence intervals
are included.
11

--- Page 12 ---
Table 6 HER2/neu Two-level Outcome Frequency Distribution of Agreement
Table 7 HER2/neu Three-level Outcome Frequency Distribution of Agreement
12

--- Page 13 ---
Table 8 HER2/neu Four-level Outcome Frequency Distribution of Agreement
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
For the repeatability and reproducibility tests a total of 40 slides were used for each
application. The slides were chosen in a way that they will span the entire clinically
meaningful range. Per each sample, attention was given to the relevant categories, so
that there will be enough samples per each category.
The following quantities of slides per category were used (Table 9):
Table 9 Quantities of slides per category
13

--- Page 14 ---
For each application the precision was tested for manual outcomes and for system
outcomes separately.
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for ER (SP1)
Each ER slide was evaluated three times on a same system/day. The following tables
describe the agreement between these three runs:
Table 10 Test: ER with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
Each ER slide is re-evaluated three times on non-consecutive days (at least 5 days
apart) on a same system. The following tables describe the agreement between these
different days:
Table 11 Test: ER with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
Each ER slide is re-evaluated three times using different systems (at least 7 days
apart). The following tables describe the agreement between these different systems:
14

--- Page 15 ---
Table 12 Test: ER with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Systems
Table 13 Between-Run, Between-Day and Between-Systems Precision (ER)
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for PR (1E2)
Each PR slide was evaluated three times on a same system/day. The following tables
describe the agreement between these three runs:
15

--- Page 16 ---
Table 14 Test: PR with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
Each PR slide is re-evaluated three times on non-consecutive days (at least 5 days
apart) on the same system. The following tables describe the agreement between
these different days:
Table 15 Test: PR with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
Each PR slide is re-evaluated three times using different systems (at least 7 days apart).
The following tables describe the agreement between these different systems:
Table 16 Test: PR with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Systems
16

--- Page 17 ---
Table 17 Between-Run, Between-Day and Between-Systems Precision (PR)
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for Ki67 (30-9)
Each Ki67 slide was evaluated three times on a same system and on a same day. The
following tables describe the agreement between these three runs:
Table 18 Test: Ki67 with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
17

--- Page 18 ---
Each Ki67 slide is re-evaluated three times on non-consecutive days (at least 5 days
apart) on a same system. The following tables describe the agreement between these
different days:
Table 19 Test: Ki67 with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
Each Ki67 slide is re-evaluated three times using different systems (at least 7 days
apart). The following tables describe the agreement between these different systems:
Table 20 Test: Ki67 with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source: Between-Systems
18

--- Page 19 ---
Table 21 Between-Run, Between-Day and Between-Systems Precision (Ki67)
The GenASIs HiPath IHC Family for HER2 (4B5)
Each HER2/neu slide was evaluated three times on a same system and on a same day.
The following tables describe the two-level, three-level and four-level agreements
between these three runs.
Table 22 Test: HER2/neu with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
19

--- Page 20 ---
Each HER2/neu slide is re-evaluated three times on non-consecutive days (at least 5
days apart) on a same system. The following tables describe the agreement between
these different days:
Table 23 Test: HER2/neu with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
Each HER2/neu slide is re-evaluated three times using different systems (at least 7 days
apart). The following tables describe the agreement between these different systems:
Table 24 Test: HER2/neu with 2 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Systems
20

--- Page 21 ---
Table 25 Between-Run, Between-Day and Between-Systems Precision (HER2/neu)
21

--- Page 22 ---
Table 26 Test: HER2/neu with 3 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
22

--- Page 23 ---
Table 27 Test: HER2/neu with 3 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
23

--- Page 24 ---
Table 28 Test: HER2/neu with 3 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Systems
24

--- Page 25 ---
Table 29 Between-runs, between-days and between-systems precision for three-level
25

--- Page 26 ---
Table 30 Test: HER2/neu with 4 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Runs (Within-Day, Within-System)
26

--- Page 27 ---
Table 31 Test: HER2/neu with 4 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Days (Within-System)
27

--- Page 28 ---
Table 32 Test: HER2/neu with 4 Levels Reference, Variance Source:
Between-Systems
28

--- Page 29 ---
Table 33 Between-runs, between-days and between-systems precision for four-level
c. Linearity:
Not applicable.
d. Carryover:
Not applicable.
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable.
29

--- Page 30 ---
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
None
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
30