
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K140447
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of BD Viper LT
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Becton, Dickinson and Company
BD Viper LT System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Nucleic acid amplification by strand displacement with fluorescence detection
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The BD Viper LT System is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in clinical
laboratories to perform automated extraction of nucleic acids from multiple specimen
types, amplification of target nucleic acid sequences by Strand Displacement
Amplification (SDA) and detection of amplified nucleic acid using a two color
fluorescence detection system. The BD Viper LT is for use only with in vitro diagnostic
tests labeled for use on the system.
2. Principles of Operation:
The BD Viper LT system uses homogeneous Strand Displacement Amplification (SDA)
as the amplification method and fluorescent energy transfer (ET) as the detection method
to test for the presence of pathogens by their genetic content in clinical specimens. For
both SDA and PCR assays, specimens are logged in and undergo a pre-warm step in the
BD Prewarm heater. The pre-warm step disrupts cells and releases DNA. After cooling,
the specimens are loaded onto the BD Viper LT instrument. The pre-warmed specimen is
transferred to an extraction tube that contains FOX particles. High pH is used to lyse the
bacterial cells and to liberate their DNA into solution. Acid is then added to lower the pH
and induce a positive charge on the FOX particles, which in turn binds to the negatively
charged DNA. The particles and bound DNA are then pulled to the sides of the extraction
tube by magnets and the unbound material is aspirated to waste. The particles are washed
and a high pH elution buffer is added to recover the purified DNA. Finally, a
neutralization buffer is used to bring the pH of the extracted solution to optimum
conditions for amplification of the target. The BD Viper LT instrument transfers
extracted specimens and positive and negative assay controls to plates containing either
SDA priming microwells. A warming step in each prime microwell ensures specific
hybridization of SDA primers to target (if present) after which the reaction mixture is
1

--- Page 2 ---
transferred to a corresponding gray SDA amplification microwell. After the plate is
sealed, the onboard reader door closes over the plate. Amplification and detection occur
and results are reported automatically based on the algorithm identified in the assay
specific package insert(s).
3. Modes of Operation:
The BD Viper LT Instrument has two modes, Walkaway and High Throughput. The user
may enable or disable Walkaway mode through use of a check box on the screen.
Walkaway mode enables the instrument to perform a complete run without pausing to
allow the user to enter additional consumables prior to the prime to amplification plate
transfer. In High Throughput mode, the instrument pauses prior to the prime to
amplification transfer to allow the user to remove the tested amplification plates from the
previous run and load new amplification plates for the next run. In High Throughput
mode, the user must acknowledge a message before the instrument will perform the
prime to amplification transfer. In either mode, the user may setup and begin a new run
while the plates are being tested in the readers.
Specimen Identification:
Two barcode scanners are located on the instrument deck: one at the specimen rack
station and one at the extraction reagent trough. There is also a built-in barcode scanner
on the Pre-warm heater that reads the specimen rack barcode. A separate hand-held
scanner is provided to help automate specimen login and identification
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
See K140446 and K140448
6. Calibration:
The instrument is calibrated at the time of manufacturing. The thermal and optical
systems are under closed loop feedback control therefore no user performed calibration is
needed.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes __X__ or No_____
Level of Concern: Moderate
Device Hazard Analysis: Acceptable
2

--- Page 3 ---
The Hazard Analysis for the BD ProbeTec CT & GC Q Amplified DNA Assays on the
x
BD Viper LT System is presented in Appendix B: Risk Management Documentation.
Architecture Design Chart: Acceptable
The relationship between the hardware and the data flow are presented in Appendix A.
Software Specifications: Acceptable
A summary of the implementation of the product requirements is provided in Appendix
A. Software design specifications for the heater, QC, Start Run/User Assistance,
Consumables, Run Status, System Data, System Alert, Configuration Screen,
Consumable Management, Login, Main Screen, Reports and Results, Specimen Rack,
System Alert, related to SDA assays is presented in Appendix A.
Development Environment: Acceptable
The software development plan was presented including procedures for developing
requirements and specifications, change control, design approach, risk management,
configuration control plan, V&V and a summary of the design deliverables.
Verification and Validation Testing: Acceptable
Software verification and validation plans describe the software review process to be
followed and the total scope of software testing to be performed. The plan describes the
software design verification activities that will occur during development and establish
the pan for conducting software tests to complete V&V testing.
Revision Level History: Acceptable
Release notes for revisions of the software previous to 1.01D were provided.
Unresolved Anomalies: Acceptable
Anomalies left unresolved in software revision 1.01D were reported along with an
analysis of the impact on the device and plans/timeframe for addressing each line item.
EMC and Electrical Testing: Acceptable
Third party vendor reports are provided stating that the system complies with EN 61326-
2-6: 2006, IEC 61010-1:2001 and IEC 61326-2-6-2005.
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
862.2570
3

--- Page 4 ---
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
OOI
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The BD Viper LT System is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in clinical
laboratories to perform automated extraction of nucleic acids from multiple specimen
types, amplification of target nucleic acid sequences by Strand Displacement
Amplification (SDA), and detection of amplified nucleic acids using a two color
fluorescence detection system. The BD Viper LT is for in vitro diagnostic use only with
tests labeled for use on the system
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Prescription use only.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
BD Viper LT System (K081825)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item BD Viper LT Predicate Device
BD Viper System
(K081825)
Intended Use The BD Viper LT System is The BD Viper System,
intended for in vitro when used with the BD
diagnostic (IVD) use in ProbeTec amplified nucleic
clinical laboratories to assay(s), is intended for the
perform automated in vitro detection of
extraction of nucleic acids targeted organisms from
from multiple specimen specimens as identified in
types, amplification of the assay-specific reagent
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities				
Item	BD Viper LT		Predicate Device	
			BD Viper System	
			(K081825)	
Intended Use	The BD Viper LT System is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) use in
clinical laboratories to
perform automated
extraction of nucleic acids
from multiple specimen
types, amplification of	The BD Viper System,
when used with the BD
ProbeTec amplified nucleic
assay(s), is intended for the
in vitro detection of
targeted organisms from
specimens as identified in
the assay-specific reagent		

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item BD Viper LT Predicate Device
BD Viper System
(K081825)
target nucleic acid package insert(s).
sequences by Strand
Displacement Amplification
(SDA), and detection of
amplified nucleic acids
using a two color
fluorescence detection
system. The BD Viper LT is
for in vitro diagnostic use
only with tests labeled for
use on the system
Technology Strand displacement Same
amplification (SDA)
Assay Results Qualitative Same
Sample Login Manual barcode scan Same
Nucleic Acid Extraction FOX Extraction Same
Method
Optical Channels Green and Orange Same
Pipetting Volume Range 50 – 1000 μL Same
Differences
Item BD Viper LT Predicate Device
BD Viper System
(K081825)
Sample Rack Capacity 48 96
Optical System Filtered CCD camera Fiber optic bundles lead to
fluorescent detection individual PMT fluorescent
detection
Thermal Control Conductive heating via Conductive heating via
Peltier-based thermal resistive heating system.
system.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
FDA Guidance Document, “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for
Software Contained in Medical Devices” issued on May 11, 2005.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities				
Item	BD Viper LT		Predicate Device	
			BD Viper System	
			(K081825)	
	target nucleic acid
sequences by Strand
Displacement Amplification
(SDA), and detection of
amplified nucleic acids
using a two color
fluorescence detection
system. The BD Viper LT is
for in vitro diagnostic use
only with tests labeled for
use on the system	package insert(s).		
Technology	Strand displacement
amplification (SDA)	Same		
Assay Results	Qualitative	Same		
Sample Login	Manual barcode scan	Same		
Nucleic Acid Extraction
Method	FOX Extraction	Same		
Optical Channels	Green and Orange	Same		
Pipetting Volume Range	50 – 1000 μL	Same		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences				
Item	BD Viper LT		Predicate Device	
			BD Viper System	
			(K081825)	
Sample Rack Capacity	48	96		
Optical System	Filtered CCD camera
fluorescent detection	Fiber optic bundles lead to
individual PMT fluorescent
detection		
Thermal Control	Conductive heating via
Peltier-based thermal
system.	Conductive heating via
resistive heating system.		

--- Page 6 ---
a. Accuracy:
See K140446 and K140448
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See K140446 and K140448
c. Linearity:
See K140446 and K140448
d. Carryover:
See K140446 and K140448
e. Interfering Substances:
See K140446 and K140448
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
None
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification along with the performance data
submitted in K140446 and K140448 is complete and supports a substantial equivalence
decision.
6