
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K141867
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable for
the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Connect System:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus
System (k133862).
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
a. Changes to the meter housing including:
i. Button functionality from 2 to 3 buttons
ii. Addition of USB port
b. Addition of Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) communications,
c. Removal of Alternate Site Testing (AST) claims for palm, upper arm, and forearm
d. Name change: ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus System to ACCU-CHEK Aviva Connect System
e. Embedded reports available for transmission to a Personal Computer
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and communication features (USB
and BLE).
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Connect System is intended for single patient use. Disinfection efficacy studies
were performed by an outside commercial testing laboratory demonstrated complete inactivation of
hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the chosen disinfectant, Super Sani-Cloth (EPA Registration #9480-4).
Robustness studies demonstrated that there was no change in performance, functionality or external
materials after 260 cleaning and 260 disinfection cycles designed to simulate a 5 year use life of the
device. Adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures are provided in the
labeling of the device.