
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION MEMORANDUM
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K141862
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
H2 Inc.
Health2Sync Mobile Application
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Diabetes data management system
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Health2Sync Mobile Application and Smart Cable (Mobile Application and
adapters) allow the transfer of blood glucose readings (data) from a compatible
glucose meter to a smartphone via the Smart Cable. The Application features enable
the user to view and analyze blood glucose readings from different meal time
periods, other features including lifestyle diary, interpretable graphs option, inviting
and sharing data with partners, and emailing reports are available for viewing and
analyzing blood glucose readings within the different time slots. The system
includes: 1) Health2Sync Mobile Application (through Apple store only), 2) Smart
Cable, 3) Smart Cable 3.5mm connector (optional) and 4) Smart Cable and
Application Quick Start Guide.
2. Principles of Operation:
The Health2Sync Mobile Applications is a data management tool. The
Health2Sync mobile application and smart cable are accessories to compatible
blood glucose meters.
The HEALTH2SYNC software application will operate in the following
operating environment: (Minimum Requirements)
· iOS Operating System (version 7.0)
· Language: English
· System Device: Apple iPhone 4/4S/5/5S,
· Input – Smart Cable connected to Blood Glucose Meter and the iOS
Device audio port.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission: Yes or No X .
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen Identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable. There is no specimen handling in this device; the device transfers
data only.
6. Calibration:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
7. Quality Control:
Glucose meter specific. See statement below under section J.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.2100
21 CFR §862.1345
2. Classification:
Class I *
Class II
* A premarket notification (510 (k)) is required for Class I devices meeting the
limitations under 21CFR 862.9 (c)(5) For use in diabetes management.
3 Product code:
JQP: Calculator/ Data Processing Module for Clinical Use
NBW: Blood Glucose Test System, Over-the-Counter

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
Health2Sync Mobile Application is data management software that is intended for
use in home and professional settings to aid people with diabetes and their
healthcare professionals in the review, analysis and evaluation of glucose test results
to support an effective diabetes management program. The Health2Sync Smart
Cable allows users to upload blood glucose data from compatible FDA cleared
meters to the Health2Sync Mobile Application on their iPhone operating system
platform.
Health2Sync Mobile Application is not intended to provide treatment decisions nor
is it to be used as a substitute for professional healthcare advice.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Over-the-counter use.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
Glooko Device System for Glooko Logbook+ Application (K130886)

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Health2Sync Mobile Glooko Device System for
Application and Smart Glooko Logbook+
Cable (K141862) Application
(K130886)
Intended Use For use by patients with Same
diabetes to sync blood
glucose data from
compatible meters to
mobile Application
installed on compatible
iOS device(s)
Syncs with Yes Same
Compatible Meters
Multiple Patients Yes - Multiple patients may Same
Use use the same device by
signing in with unique user
ID and password
Data List List all readings in “Diary” Same
Daily Activities Yes Same
Records
Average Data Yes Same
Display
Change Meter Does not allow changes to Same
Settings meter settings
Password Password protection on the Same
Application

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Health2Sync Mobile
Application and Smart
Cable (K141862)			Glooko Device System for
Glooko Logbook+
Application
(K130886)		
Intended Use			For use by patients with
diabetes to sync blood
glucose data from
compatible meters to
mobile Application
installed on compatible
iOS device(s)			Same		
Syncs with
Compatible Meters			Yes			Same		
Multiple Patients
Use			Yes - Multiple patients may
use the same device by
signing in with unique user
ID and password			Same		
Data List			List all readings in “Diary”			Same		
Daily Activities
Records			Yes			Same		
Average Data
Display			Yes			Same		
Change Meter
Settings			Does not allow changes to
meter settings			Same		
Password			Password protection on the
Application			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Health2Sync Mobile Glooko Device System for
Application and Smart Glooko Logbook+
Cable (K141862) Application
(K130886)
Operation System iOS 7.0 iOS 5.0
(minimum requirement)
Compatible Blood · OMNIS Health Embrace · Abbott: FreeStyle Freedom
Glucose Meters BGMS Meter Lite®, FreeStyle Lite®
· OMNIS Health Embrace · ARKRAY:
EVO BGMS Meter GLUCOCARD® 01,
· Medline EvenCare G2 GLUCOCARD® VitalTM
BGMS meter · Bayer: Bayer’s
BREEZE®2, Bayer’s
CONTOUR®, Bayer’s
CONTOUR® NEXT EZ.
· iSens: CareSens N and
CareSens N POP
· LifeScan: OneTouch®
Ultra®2, OneTouch®
UltraLink®, OneTouch®
UltraMini®
· ReliOn: ReliOn® Confirm,
ReliOn® Prime
· Roche: ACCU-CHEK®
Aviva, ACCU-CHEK®
Compact Plus, ACCU-
CHEK® Nano
Connectivity to meter Audio Port, via Smart 30-pin or lightning 8-pin
Cable connector (requires Apple’s
off-the-shelf Lightning to 30-
pin adapter for connection),
via MeterSync Cable
Hardware Platform iPhone 4, 4S, 5 and 5S · iPod touch: 3 and 4G
· iPhone: 3GS, 4 and 4S
· iPad: iPad 1, 2 and iPad
3G
· iPod touch 5G, iPhone 5,
iPad mini, and iPad 4G
Target Levels High and low blood glucose High and low blood glucose
target levels can be changed: target levels can be changed:
Before Meal, After Meal, Before Meal, After Meal
Bed Time
Invite Others to View Yes (through Partners / No
Data through Invitations feature)
Authorization

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Health2Sync Mobile
Application and Smart
Cable (K141862)			Glooko Device System for
Glooko Logbook+
Application
(K130886)		
Operation System
(minimum requirement)			iOS 7.0			iOS 5.0		
Compatible Blood
Glucose Meters			· OMNIS Health Embrace
BGMS Meter
· OMNIS Health Embrace
EVO BGMS Meter
· Medline EvenCare G2
BGMS meter			· Abbott: FreeStyle Freedom
Lite®, FreeStyle Lite®
· ARKRAY:
GLUCOCARD® 01,
GLUCOCARD® VitalTM
· Bayer: Bayer’s
BREEZE®2, Bayer’s
CONTOUR®, Bayer’s
CONTOUR® NEXT EZ.
· iSens: CareSens N and
CareSens N POP
· LifeScan: OneTouch®
Ultra®2, OneTouch®
UltraLink®, OneTouch®
UltraMini®
· ReliOn: ReliOn® Confirm,
ReliOn® Prime
· Roche: ACCU-CHEK®
Aviva, ACCU-CHEK®
Compact Plus, ACCU-
CHEK® Nano		
Connectivity to meter			Audio Port, via Smart
Cable			30-pin or lightning 8-pin
connector (requires Apple’s
off-the-shelf Lightning to 30-
pin adapter for connection),
via MeterSync Cable		
Hardware Platform			iPhone 4, 4S, 5 and 5S			· iPod touch: 3 and 4G
· iPhone: 3GS, 4 and 4S
· iPad: iPad 1, 2 and iPad
3G
· iPod touch 5G, iPhone 5,
iPad mini, and iPad 4G		
Target Levels			High and low blood glucose
target levels can be changed:
Before Meal, After Meal,
Bed Time			High and low blood glucose
target levels can be changed:
Before Meal, After Meal		
Invite Others to View
Data through
Authorization			Yes (through Partners /
Invitations feature)			No		

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 14971:2007 – Medical Devices – Application of risk management of medical
devices
EN 61000-3-3:2008 – Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) – Part 3-3: Limits –
Limitation of voltage changes,voltage fluctuations and flicker in public low-voltage
supply systems, for equipment with rated current <= 16 A per phase and not subject
to conditional connection
EN 55022:2010 – Information technology equipment. Radio disturbance
characteristics. Limits and methods of measurement.
EN 55024:2010 – Information technology equipment. Immunity characteristics.
Limits and methods of measurement.
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
The performance characteristics listed below as applicable, were established in the
specific glucose meter clearance under K113098, K090043, and K113208.
a) Accuracy:
See above statement under section J(1).
b) Precision/Reproducibility:
See above statement under section J(1).
c) Linearity:
See above statement under section J(1).
d) Carryover:
See above statement under section J(1).
e) Interfering Substances:
See above statement under section J(1).
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
1. A usability study was performed with 21 lay users with varying demographic
characteristics (age, sex, and education level). The intent of the study was to
verify software ease of use and label comprehension. Study participants also
completed a questionnaire in response to whether the software, smart cable, and
labeling are easy to use. The sponsor concluded that 100% of users were either
satisfied or very satisfied with the software, cable, and user manual. The
protocol and acceptance criteria of the usability studies were reviewed and
found to be acceptable. During this study, data transmission accuracy of the
devices was tested, with lay users transmitting data from blood glucose meters
to the software. 100% of data was accurately transmitted. Meter memory
rollover performance was also verified to be correct on each of the three
compatible meters. The results from the usability study demonstrated that the

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 6
product performs as intended in the hands of lay users and healthcare
professionals. All test results fell within the pre-determined specification
parameters.
2. The following documentation related to the software was reviewed and found
to be acceptable: level of concern (Moderate), software requirements
specifications, architecture design chart, software design specification,
traceability analysis, software development environment description,
verification and validation testing, device hazard analysis. The sponsor reports
that no unresolved anomalies are known to exist in the release version of the
software.
3. The results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability assessment were provided, indicating
a Grade Level Score of 7.9 for the Health2Sync Application User Manual.
4. The sponsor provided the appropriate documentation certifying that
electromagnetic testing had been evaluated and found to be compliant.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.