
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K141220
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
The Applied Biosystems 7500 Fast Dx Real-Time PCR Instrument with SDS Software
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
The SDS software will be changed to support an additional OS (Windows 7 in addition to Windows
XP).
Update camera driver for Win 7/64 bit compatibility. The camera driver used in the current 7500 Fast
Dx Real-time PCR Software v1.4 is not compatible with Windows 7 OS. The camera driver will be
updated to make the software compatible with Windows 7 OS.
An audit and e-Signature report print preview & print defect will be corrected. The current instrument
software does not allow the user to preview and print the Audit and e-Signature reports. This anomaly
will be fixed to allow the user to preview and print the Audit and e-Signature reports
The current version of the SDS Software does not allow the user to open a file from the network drive
or print a file to a network printer when it’s running on a computer with the Window 7 OS. This
function will be implemented to allow the user to open a file from a network drive and print to a
network printer once the user logins in with their user name and password credentials.
A minor cosmetic change will be implemented by removing the “AB” button and “myScience” option
from the software. These functions are no longer supported.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences):
New Device: Applied Predicate Device: Applied
Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real- Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-
Time PCR Instrument with SDS Time PCR Instrument with SDS
Software (K141220) Software version 1.4 (K082562)
Intended Use Applied Biosystems® 7500 Fast Applied Biosystems® 7500 Fast
Dx Real-Time PCR instrument Dx Real-Time PCR instrument
with the SDS Software is a real- with the SDS Software version 1.4
time nucleic acid amplification and is a real-time nucleic acid
five color fluorescence detection amplification and detection system

[Table 1 on page 1]
		New Device: Applied			Predicate Device: Applied	
		Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-			Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-	
		Time PCR Instrument with SDS			Time PCR Instrument with SDS	
		Software (K141220)			Software version 1.4 (K082562)	
Intended Use	Applied Biosystems® 7500 Fast
Dx Real-Time PCR instrument
with the SDS Software is a real-
time nucleic acid amplification and
five color fluorescence detection			Applied Biosystems® 7500 Fast
Dx Real-Time PCR instrument
with the SDS Software version 1.4
is a real-time nucleic acid
amplification and detection system		

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3
New Device: Applied Predicate Device: Applied
Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real- Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-
Time PCR Instrument with SDS Time PCR Instrument with SDS
Software (K141220) Software version 1.4 (K082562)
system for use with FDA cleared or that measures nucleic acid signals
approved tests on human-derived from reverse transcribed RNA and
specimens. The 7500 Fast Dx Real- converts them to comparative
Time PCR instrument and SDS quantitative readouts using
Software are intended for use in fluorescent detection of dual-
combination with in vitro labeled hydrolysis probes. The
diagnostic tests labeled for use on 7500 Fast Dx instrument is to be
this instrument. The 7500 Fast Dx used only by technologists trained
instrument is intended for use by in laboratory techniques,
laboratory professionals trained in procedures, and on use of the
laboratory techniques, procedures, analyzer.
and on use of the system.
Fundamental Real-time PCR Same
Technology/Detection
Instrument Computer Operating Microsoft Windows 7 Microsoft Windows XP
System
Degree of Automation Requires manual transfer of Same
amplification mixture to
amplification/detection instrument.
Automated control of
amplification, detection and data
analysis
Primary Operational Amplification Integrated thermal cycler and Same
and Detection Components microvolume fluorimeter for walk
away PCR amplification and
detection
Amplification Reaction Volume 10-30 uL in 96-well Fast PCR Same
plates
6. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Software architecture document describing the software design structure and programming
environment.
b) Software lifecycle management plan contains requirements for the software development
lifecycle of the product. It defines the approach for software development as a subset of Life
Technologies’ Product Commercialization Process (PCP). It also defines the approach to
software maintenance through product decommissioning and disposal.
c) Impact assessment report assessing the impact and user safety risk for 7500 Fast Dx Real-Time
PCR Instrument software change to support new computer models with Windows 7 Professional
32/64 bit Operating System Service Pack 1.
d) Sustaining project master plan describes the software development plan and test plan.

[Table 1 on page 2]
		New Device: Applied			Predicate Device: Applied	
		Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-			Biosystems® 7500 Fast Dx Real-	
		Time PCR Instrument with SDS			Time PCR Instrument with SDS	
		Software (K141220)			Software version 1.4 (K082562)	
	system for use with FDA cleared or
approved tests on human-derived
specimens. The 7500 Fast Dx Real-
Time PCR instrument and SDS
Software are intended for use in
combination with in vitro
diagnostic tests labeled for use on
this instrument. The 7500 Fast Dx
instrument is intended for use by
laboratory professionals trained in
laboratory techniques, procedures,
and on use of the system.			that measures nucleic acid signals
from reverse transcribed RNA and
converts them to comparative
quantitative readouts using
fluorescent detection of dual-
labeled hydrolysis probes. The
7500 Fast Dx instrument is to be
used only by technologists trained
in laboratory techniques,
procedures, and on use of the
analyzer.		
Fundamental
Technology/Detection	Real-time PCR			Same		
Instrument Computer Operating
System	Microsoft Windows 7			Microsoft Windows XP		
Degree of Automation	Requires manual transfer of
amplification mixture to
amplification/detection instrument.
Automated control of
amplification, detection and data
analysis			Same		
Primary Operational Amplification
and Detection Components	Integrated thermal cycler and
microvolume fluorimeter for walk
away PCR amplification and
detection			Same		
Amplification Reaction Volume	10-30 uL in 96-well Fast PCR
plates			Same		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3
e) Software verification test report describes the verification results of the 7500 Fast Dx SDS
Software v1.4.1 in accordance to the Sustaining Project Master Plan.
f) Revision level history.
g) Software configuration management plan provides the guidance for the control of evolving
software systems, including creation of a Software Configuration Management Plan (SCMP).
It controls versioning and configuration management of software products. It defines an
approach for software configuration management and version control system use as a subset
of Software Development Lifecycle Procedure.
h) Service and support plan along with a software release for deployment guideline.
i) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that, as required by the risk analysis, all
verification and validation activities were performed by the designated individual(s) and the results
demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met.
j) A statement signed by the individual responsible, that the manufacturing facility is in conformance
with design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are
available for review.
7. A Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for
Use Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.