
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k141109
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the AT Turbo and CS2 scanner models to the cleared Aperio ScanScope® XT
System for scoring ER, PR and HER2 immunohistochemically stained slides by the image
analysis algorithm method.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Leica Biosystems Imaging, Inc., Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD System, AT Turbo and CS2
models
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Computer-assisted image analysis algorithm for scoring immunohistochemically stained
HER2/neu slides, estrogen receptor (ER)/progesterone receptor (PR) slides.. The image
analysis algorithm scoring is confirmed by the pathologist before reporting the scores.
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD System is a closed system comprised of a ScanScope®
digital slide scanner instrument (either the ScanScope AT Turbo or the ScanScope CS2) and
eSlide Manager software, ImageScope software and Image Analysis Algorithms, as
applicable. The Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD System is an automated digital slide
creation, management, viewing and analysis system. The system is comprised of a slide
scanner instrument and a computer executing eSlideManager, ImageScope and Image
Analysis Algorithm software. The system capabilities include digitizing
immunohistochemically stained slides, storing and managing the resulting digital slide
images, retrieving and displaying digital slides, providing tools for annotating digital
slides and entering and editing data associated with digital slides, and tools for image
analysis of the regions that pathologists select on the digital slide images.
2. Principles of Operation:
Glass slides are digitized by an image acquisition system that provides digital slide
images of the immunohistochemically stained slides; the image acquisition system
provides support for patient / slide identification, slide loading, calibration, tissue
identification, focusing and digital image storage and management. Pathologists select
1

--- Page 2 ---
regions on the digital slide images that will be automatically analyzed by an image
analysis algorithm for HER2 or ER/PR (i.e., HER2 or ER/PR Image Analysis). The
regions on the digital slide images selected by pathologists for image analysis should be
representative for the entire tumor.
The HER2 Image Analysis algorithm detects the membrane staining for the individual
tumor cells in the selected regions and quantifies the intensity and completeness of the
membrane staining. Tumor cells are individually classified as 0, 1+, 2+, and 3+ based on
their membrane staining intensity and completeness. The HER2 score is then calculated
based on the percentages of 0, 1+, 2+, and 3+ cells according to the HER2 scoring
scheme. A markup image highlights the detected cell features (black = nuclei and
membrane) and the membrane staining which is color-coded according to the cell
classification (blue =0, yellow = 1+, orange = 2+, red = 3+). The pathologist is then
provided with HER2 score and the percentages of 0, 1+, 2+, and 3+ cells. The pathologist
makes the final interpretation based on both the qualitative and quantitative information
and should follow all appropriate instructions in the Dako Hercep Test™ product insert
The ER/PR image analysis algorithms use color, intensity, size, pattern and shape
information to detect, count, and classify cells of interest and determine a score that
correlates with the score the pathologists provide. The image analysis algorithm reports
the percentage of positive nuclei and average intensity score of 0, 1+, 2+ or 3+ for each
slide. The pathologist makes the final interpretation based on the percent positivity of
tumor nuclei and/or staining intensity according to the laboratory’s established
interpretation criteria.
3. Modes of Operation:
Semi-automated computer-assisted scoring of IHC HER2, ER or PR stained slide images
performed by Image Analysis Applications with manual verification by the pathologist.
4. Specimen Identification:
Glass slides are identified by barcode label
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The Autoloader component of the ScanScope® AT Turbo instrument is responsible for
storing slides to be scanned, and contains a mechanism for mounting the current slide to
be processed on the scanning stage. The slide autoloader is an assembly within the
ScanScope AT Turbo that can hold up to 400 slides.
The ScanScope® CS2 has no Autoloader. The CS2 has a five slide capacity tray that can
be inserted by the operator into the system.
6. Calibration:
2

--- Page 3 ---
The scanner is calibrated and verified at the factory before shipment. No further manual
calibration or verification is required by the customer. Annual preventive maintenance,
performed by Leica Biosystems Imaging Technical Services, is recommended to make
sure the scanner is operating correctly. The scanner provides automatic calibration and
verification every time a slide is scanned by performing prescan calibration during the
scan.
7. Quality Control:
The pathologist must verify that the eSlides are of sufficient quality to perform his or her
task. The pathologist should review the quality of the scanning by evaluating that the
entire tissue sample is scanned and in focus. Positive and negative control slides are also
scanned along with the patient slides which are reviewed by the pathologist before
scoring.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §864.1860 Immunohistochemistry reagents and kits
2. Classification:
II
3 Product code:
NOT, NQN
4. Panel:
Pathology (88)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
· HER2 Image Analysis
3

--- Page 4 ---
The Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD System is an automated digital slide creation,
management, viewing and analysis system. It is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
an aid to the pathologist in the display, detection, counting and classification of
tissues and cells of clinical interest based on particular color, intensity, size, pattern
and shape.
The IHC HER2 Image Analysis application is intended for use as an aid to the
pathologist in the detection and semi-quantitative measurement of HER2/neu (c-
erbB-2) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.
The IHC HER2 Image Analysis application is intended for use as an accessory to the
Dako HercepTest™ to aid in the detection and semi-quantitative measurement of
HER2/neu (c-erbB-2) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue. When
used with the Dako HercepTest™, it is indicated for use as an aid in the assessment
of breast cancer patients for whom HERCEPTIN® (Trastuzumab) treatment is being
considered.
Note: The IHC HER2 Image Analysis application is an adjunctive computer-assisted
methodology to assist the reproducibility of a qualified pathologist in the acquisition
and measurement of images from microscope slides of breast cancer specimens
stained for the presence of HER-2 receptor protein. The IHC HER2 Image Analysis
application is intended to be used on images viewed on a computer monitor. The
accuracy of the test result depends upon the quality of the immunohistochemical
staining. It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate
morphological studies and controls as specified in the instructions for the Dako
HercepTest™ to assure the validity of the IHC HER2 Image Analysis application
assisted HER-2/neu score. The actual correlation of the Dako HercepTest™ to
Herceptin® clinical outcome has not been established.
· ER/PR Image Analysis
The Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD System is an automated digital slide creation,
management, viewing and analysis system. It is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
an aid to the pathologist in the display, detection, counting and classification of
tissues and cells of clinical interest based on particular color, intensity, size, pattern
and shape.
The IHC ER Image Analysis application is intended for use as an aid to the
pathologist in the detection and quantitative measurement of ER (Estrogen Receptor)
in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.
The IHC PR Image Analysis application is intended for use as an aid to the
pathologist in the detection and quantitation measurement of PR (Progesterone
Receptor) in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.
It is indicated for use as an aid in the management, prognosis, and prediction of
4

--- Page 5 ---
therapy outcomes of breast cancer.
Note: The IHC ER and PR Image Analysis applications are an adjunctive computer-
assisted methodology to assist the reproducibility of a qualified pathologist in the
acquisition and measurement of images from microscope slides of breast cancer
specimens stained for the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptor proteins.
The IHC ER and PR Image Analysis applications are intended to be used on images
viewed on a computer monitor. The accuracy of the test result depends upon the
quality of the immunohistochemical staining. It is the responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ appropriate morphological studies and controls as specified in
the instructions for the ER and PR reagent/kit used to assure the validity of the IHC
ER and PR Image Analysis application assisted scores.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only
Indicated for use with slides stained on the Dako Autostainer??
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
ScanScope® System XT; k071128, k073677
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities and Differences
Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD
Aperio ScanScope® XT System
Item ScanScope AT Turbo and CS2
(Predicate)
System
Intended The ScanScope System is an automated Same
Use/ Indications for digital slide creation, management,
Use viewing and analysis system. It is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist in the display,
detection, counting and classification of
tissues and cells of clinical interest and
shape.
The IHC HER2 Image Analysis
application (k071128) is intended for
use as an aid to the pathologist in the
detection and semi-quantitative
measurement of HER2/neu (c-erbB-2) in
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities and Differences						
Item	Aperio ScanScope® XT System
(Predicate)				Aperio ePathology eIHC IVD	
					ScanScope AT Turbo and CS2	
					System	
Intended
Use/ Indications for
Use		The ScanScope System is an automated		Same	Same	
		digital slide creation, management,				
		viewing and analysis system. It is				
		intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an				
		aid to the pathologist in the display,				
		detection, counting and classification of				
		tissues and cells of clinical interest and				
		shape.				
						
		The IHC HER2 Image Analysis				
		application (k071128) is intended for				
		use as an aid to the pathologist in the				
		detection and semi-quantitative				
		measurement of HER2/neu (c-erbB-2) in				

[Table 2 on page 5]
Aperio ScanScope® XT System
(Predicate)

[Table 3 on page 5]
Intended
Use/ Indications for
Use

--- Page 6 ---
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
neoplastic tissue. The IHC HER2 Image
Analysis application is intended for use
as an accessory to the Dako
HercepTest™ to aid in the detection and
semi-quantitative measurement of
HER2/neu (c-erbB-2) in formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.
When used with the Dako
HercepTest™, it is indicated for use as
an aid in the assessment of breast cancer
patients for whom HERCEPTIN®
(Trastuzumab) treatment is being
considered.
The IHC ER Image Analysis application
(k073677) is intended for use as an aid
to the pathologist in the detection and
quantitative measurement of ER
(Estrogen Receptor) in formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.
The IHC PR Image Analysis application
(k073677) is intended for use as an aid
to the pathologist in the detection and
quantitation measurement of PR
(Progesterone Receptor) in formalin-
fixed, paraffin-embedded neoplastic
tissue. It is indicated for use as an aid in
the management, prognosis, and
prediction of therapy outcomes of breast
cancer.
Specimen Type Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded Same
breast tissue specimens stained by
immunohistochemistry
Assay Used HER2: Dako HercepTest® Same
ER: Dako Mouse Anti- Human Estrogen
Receptor α (Clone 1D5)
PR: Dako Monoclonal Mouse Anti-
Human Progesterone Receptor (Clone
PgR 636)
Method of Pathologists select regions on the digital Same
Interpretation slide images that will be automatically
analyzed by an image analysis algorithm
for HER2 or ER/PR (i.e., HER2 or
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
		formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded		
		neoplastic tissue. The IHC HER2 Image		
		Analysis application is intended for use		
		as an accessory to the Dako		
		HercepTest™ to aid in the detection and		
		semi-quantitative measurement of		
		HER2/neu (c-erbB-2) in formalin-fixed,		
		paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.		
		When used with the Dako		
		HercepTest™, it is indicated for use as		
		an aid in the assessment of breast cancer		
		patients for whom HERCEPTIN®		
		(Trastuzumab) treatment is being		
		considered.		
				
		The IHC ER Image Analysis application		
		(k073677) is intended for use as an aid		
		to the pathologist in the detection and		
		quantitative measurement of ER		
		(Estrogen Receptor) in formalin-fixed		
		paraffin-embedded neoplastic tissue.		
		The IHC PR Image Analysis application		
		(k073677) is intended for use as an aid		
		to the pathologist in the detection and		
		quantitation measurement of PR		
		(Progesterone Receptor) in formalin-		
		fixed, paraffin-embedded neoplastic		
		tissue. It is indicated for use as an aid in		
		the management, prognosis, and		
		prediction of therapy outcomes of breast		
		cancer.		
Specimen Type		Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded		Same
		breast tissue specimens stained by		
		immunohistochemistry		
Assay Used		HER2: Dako HercepTest®		Same
				
		ER: Dako Mouse Anti- Human Estrogen		
		Receptor α (Clone 1D5)		
				
		PR: Dako Monoclonal Mouse Anti-		
		Human Progesterone Receptor (Clone		
		PgR 636)		
Method of
Interpretation		Pathologists select regions on the digital		Same
		slide images that will be automatically		
		analyzed by an image analysis algorithm		
		for HER2 or ER/PR (i.e., HER2 or		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Method of
Interpretation

--- Page 7 ---
ER/PR Image Analysis)
DeviceComponents System components consist of Same as predicate device with
anautomated digital microscope slide the exception of the following
scanner, computer, color monitor, component updates:
keyboard, image analysis software and · Slide Autoloader
digital pathology information · Stages
management software · Macro and Area Camera
· Motion Control
· Controller Software
· Console Software
· eSlide Manager Software
Image Slide scanner based on line scanning Same
Acquisition technology
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
The performance of the ScanScope AT Turbo and CS2 models were evaluated for 1)
system accuracy (method comparison) 2) inter-system precision and 3) intra-system
precision. The performance studies were conducted using three (3) ScanScope AT Turbo
systems, three (3) ScanScope CS2 systems (Candidate Devices) and one (1) of the
original FDA cleared ScanScope XT systems (Predicate Device). Two board certified
pathologists participated in the accuracy studies, and provided the annotations that were
used in the precision studies All study scanning was completed by a qualified scanning
professional in a simulated laboratory environment.
The sample sizes for the Method Comparison and Precision Studies were based on the
number of samples required to obtain the appropriate confidence in the data.
a. Accuracy:
The performance of the ScanScope AT Turbo and CS2 models were evaluated in
comparison with the predicate device ScanScope XT systems using malignant breast
cancer samples. The slides were scanned and analyzed by the predicate or ScanScope
AT Turbo or CS2 models. Board certified pathologists provided the annotations.
The data was recorded into contingency tables, and further analyzed for statistical
significance based on the pre-established acceptance criteria. For the HER2 Method
Comparison Study, 120 slides were obtained for the study, however 1 of the slide was
removed for not having a malignant tumor yielding a total sample size of n = 119.
The results are shown in Table 1.
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
				ER/PR Image Analysis)				
DeviceComponents			System components consist of
anautomated digital microscope slide
scanner, computer, color monitor,
keyboard, image analysis software and
digital pathology information
management software	System components consist of			Same as predicate device with	
				anautomated digital microscope slide			the exception of the following	
				scanner, computer, color monitor,			component updates:	
				keyboard, image analysis software and			· Slide Autoloader	
				digital pathology information			· Stages	
				management software			· Macro and Area Camera	
							· Motion Control	
							· Controller Software	
							· Console Software	
							· eSlide Manager Software	
	Image			Slide scanner based on line scanning		Same	Same	
	Acquisition			technology				

--- Page 8 ---
Table 1: Method comparison contingency table for HER2 distribution between the ScanScope
XT (Predicate Device), the ScanScope AT Turbo, and the Scanscope CS2 (Candidate Devices).
For the ER Method Comparison Study, 120 slides were obtained for the study, however 2
of the slides were removed for not having a malignant tumor yielding a total sample size
of n = 118. The results are shown in Table 2.
Table 2: Method comparison contingency table for ER distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds between the ScanScope XT (Predicate Device), the ScanScope AT Turbo,
and the Scanscope CS2 (Candidate Devices).
For the PR Method Comparison Study, 120 cases were obtained and included in the study
(n = 120). The results are shown in Table 3.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Table 3: Method comparison contingency table for PR distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds between the ScanScope XT (Predicate Device), the ScanScope AT Turbo,
and the Scanscope CS2 (Candidate Devices).
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
For the ScanScope AT Turbo HER2 Precision Studies, 40 slides were obtained, however
1 of the slides was removed for not having visible tumor on the slide yielding a sample
size of n = 39. The results are shown in Table 4 and Table 5.
Table 4: Inter-system precision contingency tables for HER2 distribution in three ScanScope
AT Turbo devices
9

--- Page 10 ---
Table 5: Intra-system precision contingency tables for HER2 distribution in three scans from the
same ScanScope AT Turbo device
The ScanScope CS2 HER2 Precision studies included 40 slides (n =40). The results are
shown in Table 6 and Table 7.
Table 6: Inter-system precision contingency tables for HER2 distribution in three ScanScope
CS2 devices
Table 7: Intra-system precision contingency tables for HER2 distribution in three scans from the
same ScanScope CS2 device
For the ScanScope AT Turbo ER Precision Study, 80 slides were obtained and included
10

--- Page 11 ---
(n =80). The results are shown in Table 8 and Table 9.
Table 8: Inter-system precision contingency tables for ER distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds in three ScanScope AT Turbo devices
Table 9: Intra-system precision contingency tables for ER distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds for three scans from the same ScanScope AT Turbo device
For the Scanscope CS2 ER Precision Study, 40 slides were obtained, however 2 slides
were removed for not having a malignant tumor yielding a sample size of n= 38. The
11

--- Page 12 ---
results are shown in Table 10 and Table 11.
Table 10: Inter-system precision contingency tables for ER distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds in three ScanScope CS2 devices
Table 11: Intra-system precision contingency tables for ER distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds for three scans from the same ScanScope CS2 device
12

--- Page 13 ---
For the ScanScope AT Turbo PR Precision Study, 40 slides were obtained and included
(n =40). The results are shown in Table 12 and Table 13.
Table 12: Inter-system precision contingency tables for PR distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds in three ScanScope AT Turbo devices
Table 13: Intra-system precision contingency tables for PR distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds for three scans from the same ScanScope AT Turbo device
13

--- Page 14 ---
For the Scanscope CS2 PR Precision Study, 40 slides were obtained and included (n
=40). The results are shown in Table 14 and Table 15.
Table 14: Inter-system precision contingency tables for PR distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds in three ScanScope CS2 devices
Table 15: Intra-system precision contingency tables for PR distribution at two different percent
positive thresholds for three scans from the same ScanScope CS2 device
14

--- Page 15 ---
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Not applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
None
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
15