
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K141859
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel 510(k) number: K132508
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
This change was for a revision of the package insert for the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time
RT_PCR Diagnostic Panel. Recently, additional assays have been included in the CDC Human
Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR Diagnostic Panel and cleared by FDA to accommodate the new
influenza virus subtypes. The consumption of the various assays within the panel may be different
since the prevalence of influenza virus types and subtypes vary from season to season. To address
the variation in consumption, CDC will provide the users with an option to order different
configurations of specific components of the panel to manage the supply of reagents more efficiently
minimizing waste. The package insert was modified by removing information not related to the
Influenza A/H5 Subtyping Kit. This modification will allow the CDC to provide the H5 Subtyping Kit
separately from other components of the Diagnostic Panel (Influenza A/B Typing kit, Influenza A
Subtyping Kit and Influenza B Lineage Genotyping Kit). No other text in the package insert has been
added or modified. Different components of the CDC Human Influenza Virus Real-Time RT-PCR
Diagnostic Panel will be accompanied by revised labeling (package inserts) and the current
submission is to clear the A/H5 subtyping kit.
The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
No changes were made to the intended use or physical characteristics of this test. The
labelling changes did not include insertion or modification of any text, only text not relevant
to the Influenza A/H5 Subtyping kit was removed.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.