
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Memorandum (Decision Making Document is Attached)
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K142336
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) GLUCOCARD 01 Blood
Glucose Monitoring System and ReliOn Confirm Blood Glucose Monitoring System (K124021)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for: modifications to certain exterior materials of the meters, specifically the lens,
body, button plastics, and meter label.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics. Studies performed include viral
elimination effectiveness, drop test and meter robustness studies.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The GLUCOCARD 01 Blood Glucose Monitoring System and ReliOn Confirm Blood Glucose Monitoring System are
intended for single-patient use. Disinfection efficacy of the Clorox Healthcare Germicidal Wipes (EPA #67619-12)
was validated using materials from the meters demonstrating complete inactivation of duck hepatitis B virus (HBV).
The sponsor also performed robustness studies demonstrating that there was no change in performance or in the
materials of the meters after 416 cleaning and disinfection cycles designed to simulate a 4-year use life of the device
(with 2 cleaning/disinfection cycles per week). The labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated
cleaning and disinfection procedures.