
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k142089
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of insulin bolus calculator description information to labeling
C. Measurand:
Capillary whole blood glucose
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay, glucose dehydrogenase (mutant GDH-PQQ)
E. Applicant:
Roche Diagnostics Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
Regulation Name Class Product Code Panel
21 § 862.1345 Glucose dehydrogenase, II LFR (75) Chemistry
glucose test system
21 § 868.1890 Calculator, drug dose II NDC General and
Plastic Surgery
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert System is indicated as an aid in the treatment of insulin-
requiring diabetes. The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert System consists of the ACCU-
CHEK Aviva Expert Meter, ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus test strips, ACCU-CHEK Aviva
control solutions, and ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor. The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert
System is intended to facilitate the optimization of glycemic control in patients who are
trained in multiple daily insulin injection therapy and are under the supervision of
healthcare professionals experienced in managing insulin treated patients.
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring system is intended to be used
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Regulation			Name			Class			Product Code			Panel	
21 § 862.1345			Glucose dehydrogenase,
glucose test system			II			LFR			(75) Chemistry		
21 § 868.1890			Calculator, drug dose			II			NDC			General and
Plastic Surgery		

--- Page 2 ---
for the quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood samples
drawn from the fingertips. The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring
system is intended for self-testing outside the body (in vitro diagnostic use) by people
with diabetes. The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring system is
intended to be used by a single person and should not be shared. The ACCU-CHEK
Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring system should not be used for the diagnosis or
screening of diabetes or for neonatal use. Alternative site testing should NOT be used
with the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring system. The ACCU-
CHEK Aviva Expert System is intended for prescription home use only.
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert meter is also indicated for the calculation of an insulin
dose or carbohydrate intake based on user-entered data. The ACCU-CHEK Bolus
Advisor, as a component of the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert meter, is intended for use in
providing insulin dose recommendations in response to blood glucose, health events, and
carbohydrate input. The ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor is intended to provide direction for
insulin adjustment within the scope of a preplanned treatment program from a healthcare
professional. Before its use, a physician or healthcare professional must prescribe the
ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert System and provide the patient-specific target blood
glucose, insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio, and insulin sensitivity parameters to be
programmed into the ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor. Once programmed, a patient must
consult with his/her physician or healthcare professional before making any changes to
these ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor settings.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
· For in vitro diagnostic use only
· Capillary fingerstick blood only
· Not for testing on neonates
· Do not use for diagnosis or screening of diabetes mellitus
· Inaccurate results may occur in severe dehydration as a result of diabetic
ketoacidosis or due to hyperglycemic non-ketotic syndrome, hypotension, shock,
decompensated heart failure NYHA Class IV, or peripheral arterial occlusive
disease.
· Not to be used for patients who are critically ill
· For single-patient use only
· Not to be used with patients taking Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (NPH) or any
other intermediate-acting insulin.
· For prescription home use only
· Patient-specific target blood glucose, insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio, and insulin
sensitivity parameters should be provided by a physician or healthcare
professional.
· Consultation with a physician or healthcare professional should occur before
making any changes to the ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor settings.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert Meter
2

--- Page 3 ---
I. Device Description:
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert Blood Glucose Monitoring System consists of the
following:
· ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert meter
· ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor (a component of the Aviva Expert meter)
· ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus test strips (k101299)
· ACCU-CHEK Aviva control solutions (k043474)
· ACCU-CHEK FastClix lancing device
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert blood glucose monitoring system (cleared under k131366)
is a blood glucose monitoring system that makes use of the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert
meter, ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus test strips and the ACCU-CHEK Aviva control solutions.
The ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert system provides the user with the ability to measure blood
glucose levels when a sample of capillary blood is applied to the test strip. The meter also
provides an optional insulin bolus calculator (the ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor) designed for
use by individuals with diabetes who require insulin. The insulin bolus calculator algorithm
is identical to the bolus calculator algorithm that was cleared for this system (k131366). This
bolus calculator is meant to be used by patients with diabetes on multiple daily insulin
injection (MDI) therapy. The insulin bolus calculation function is optional in that a user can
simply obtain a blood glucose value through capillary blood testing and does not need to use
the insulin bolus calculator portion of the system if it is not desired. In order to calculate the
appropriate bolus of insulin, the ACCU-CHEK Bolus Advisor takes into account the
measured blood glucose, the target blood glucose, the carbohydrate intake, the insulin-to-
carbohydrate ratio, the insulin sensitivity, health events (such as exercise), the time of day,
and the active insulin. Before using the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert system, a physician or
healthcare professional must provide the patient-specific target blood glucose, insulin-to-
carbohydrate ratio, and insulin sensitivity parameters.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k131366
3. Comparison with predicate:
Item Device- ACCU-CHEK Predicate- Device- ACCU-
Aviva Expert System CHEK Aviva Expert
(k142089) System (k131366)
Indications for Use Same Quantitative measurement
of glucose (sugar) in
capillary blood from the
finger tip, indicated for
diabetes management by
calculating an insulin dose
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Item		Device- ACCU-CHEK			Predicate- Device- ACCU-	
		Aviva Expert System			CHEK Aviva Expert	
		(k142089)			System (k131366)	
Indications for Use	Same			Quantitative measurement
of glucose (sugar) in
capillary blood from the
finger tip, indicated for
diabetes management by
calculating an insulin dose		

--- Page 4 ---
Item Device- ACCU-CHEK Predicate- Device-ACCU-
Aviva Expert System CHEK Aviva Expert
(k142089) System (k131366)
or carbohydrate intake.
Insulin bolus calculator Same Insulin bolus calculator for
insulin dosing calculations.
Test Strip Same Aviva Plus Test Strip
Test Principle Same Amperometric Detection
Enzyme Same Mutant Q-GDH PQQ
Hematocrit Range Same 10 to 65%
Maximum Altitude Same 10,000 feet
Measuring Range Same 20 – 600 mg/dL
Sample Volume Same 0.6 mcL
Test Time Same 5 seconds
Operating Temperature and Same 14 to 38ºC (57 to 100ºF),
Relative Humidity 10-80% r.h.
Coding Same Code key insertion; lot-
specific code key provided
with each box of Aviva
Plus test strips
Closed and Open Test Strip Same 18 months
Shelf Life Stability
Control Solutions Same Aqueous, 2 levels, uses
ACCU-CHEK Aviva
Control Solutions
Differences
Item Device- ACCU-CHEK Predicate- Device- ACCU-
Aviva Expert System CHEK Aviva Expert
(k142089) System (k131366)
Labeling Addition of an insulin bolus
calculator description to
meter manuals
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
N/A
L. Test Principle:
When an ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus test strip is inserted into the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert
meter, a small alternating current (AC) is applied until the application of blood causes a spike
in the conductivity to be observed at the measurement and sample sufficiency electrodes –
both are used to assure an adequate sample has been applied. The instrument then applies a
series of AC voltages at four frequencies and reads the AC responses. These carry
information about the sample type and environmental temperature; they also allow the
system to perform various internal quality checks. After the AC measures are completed, a
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Item		Device- ACCU-CHEK			Predicate- Device-ACCU-	
		Aviva Expert System			CHEK Aviva Expert	
		(k142089)			System (k131366)	
				or carbohydrate intake.		
Insulin bolus calculator	Same			Insulin bolus calculator for
insulin dosing calculations.		
Test Strip	Same			Aviva Plus Test Strip		
Test Principle	Same			Amperometric Detection		
Enzyme	Same			Mutant Q-GDH PQQ		
Hematocrit Range	Same			10 to 65%		
Maximum Altitude	Same			10,000 feet		
Measuring Range	Same			20 – 600 mg/dL		
Sample Volume	Same			0.6 mcL		
Test Time	Same			5 seconds		
Operating Temperature and
Relative Humidity	Same			14 to 38ºC (57 to 100ºF),
10-80% r.h.		
Coding	Same			Code key insertion; lot-
specific code key provided
with each box of Aviva
Plus test strips		
Closed and Open Test Strip
Shelf Life Stability	Same			18 months		
Control Solutions	Same			Aqueous, 2 levels, uses
ACCU-CHEK Aviva
Control Solutions		

[Table 2 on page 4]
	Differences						
Item	Item		Device- ACCU-CHEK			Predicate- Device- ACCU-	
			Aviva Expert System			CHEK Aviva Expert	
			(k142089)			System (k131366)	
Labeling		Addition of an insulin bolus
calculator description to
meter manuals					

--- Page 5 ---
small (DC) voltage is applied and current is observed which is proportionate to the glucose.
The AC and DC information are then combined to provide a hematocrit and temperature
compensated glucose result.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
As established in k111353.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
As established in k111353.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
As established in k111353. Traceability is to NIST SRM 917 and was established
under k101299. ACCU-CHEK Aviva Plus test strip stability was evaluated under
k101299. Closed and open vial test strip stability is 18 months when stored at 36-86°
F (2-30°C). ACCUCHEK Aviva control solutions stability and value assignment was
evaluated under k043474. Closed vial stability at 36-90°F is 24 months from the date
of manufacture. Open vial stability is 3 months from the date of opening.
d. Detection limit:
As established in k111353. The reportable range is 20-600 mg/dL.
e. Analytical specificity:
As established in k111353.
The sponsor has the following limitations in their labeling:
• Lipemic samples (triglycerides) in excess of 1800 mg/dL may produce elevated
results.
• Blood concentrations of galactose >15 mg/dL will cause overestimation of
blood glucose results.
• Intravenous administration of ascorbic acid which results in blood
concentrations of ascorbic acid >3 mg/dL will cause overestimation of blood
glucose results.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
As established in k111353.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. The device is for fingerstick capillary blood only.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
5

--- Page 6 ---
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The sponsor included the following expected values in the labeling:
The fasting glucose level for a non-diabetic adult is below 100 mg/dL.1,2
Two hours after meals the normal blood glucose level for a non-diabetic is less than 140
mg/dL.1
1American Diabetes Association: Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus
(Position Statement). Diabetes Care 34 (Supp. 1) S66, 2011.
2Tietz Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry, 6th Edition, Edited by Burtis CA and
Ashwood ED, W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, PA, 2008, p. 849.
N. Instrument Name:
ACCU-CHECK Aviva Expert Meter
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Each test strip is single use and must be replaced with a new strip for additional readings.
Before using the ACCU-CHEK Bolus Calculator on the ACCU-CHEK Aviva Expert
system, a physician or healthcare professional must provide the patient-specific target
blood glucose, insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio, and insulin sensitivity parameters. Labeling
is provided for the Bolus Calculator functions.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes X or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ______ or No __X______
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes __X______ or No ________
6

--- Page 7 ---
The applicant has provided documentation that indicates the device was designed and
developed under good software life-cycle processes.
3. Specimen Identification:
There is no sample identification function with this device. Samples are applied directly
to the test strip as they are collected.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The glucose test is intended to be used with capillary whole blood from the finger. The
sample is applied directly to the test strip and testing is performed immediately. Sample
storage is not required.
5. Calibration:
Each lot of test strips contains a code key specific to the lot and the key must be inserted
into the meter prior to using a new lot of strips.
6. Quality Control:
Two levels of aqueous glucose control solutions are available with this system (Level 1,
Level 2) but must be purchased separately. The meter automatically recognizes control
materials as separate from patient samples and identifies them as controls on the display
screen. Control results are not included in patient glucose averaging. Recommendations
on when to test the control materials and troubleshooting steps if the controls are outside
of specifications are provided in the labeling. An acceptable range for each control level
is printed on the test strip vial label.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
1. Hematocrit study: As established in k111353, the claimed hematocrit range is 10-65%.
2. Altitude study: As established in k111353, the claimed altitude is 10,000 ft.
3. Infection Control Study: As established in k111353. The ACCU-CHECK Aviva Expert
Blood Glucose Monitoring System is for single patient use only and validation testing
supported the use of Super Sani-Cloth (EPA reg. no. 9480-4) for 260 cleaning and
disinfection cycles to simulate 5 years of single-patient meter use. Labeling was
reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.
4. Environmental testing for temperature and relative humidity: As established in k111353.
Operating temperature and humidity ranges are from 57-100ºF (14-38ºC), 10-80% RH.
5. Sample volume requirements: As established in k111353. The minimum sample volume
is 6 µL.
6. EMC and electrical safety: As established in k111353.
7

--- Page 8 ---
7. Usability study: As established in k111353.
8. Readability study: As established in k111353.
9. Customer support is available 24 hrs/day, 7 days per week by calling 1-800-688-4578.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
8