
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Decision Summary
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K143592
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
GAMMA PHAGE LYSIS ASSAY FOR THE IDENTIFICATION OF BACILLUS ANTHRACIS
510(k) Number: K051794
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
The modification presented in this special 510(k) consisted of changing the Bacillus anthracis positive
control from the specified Pasteur strain, to the Sterne strain. The reason for the change was to
allow laboratories to maintain a non-listed agent (Sterne strain), versus the Pasteur strain that is a
biological select agent, and reduce logistics burdens imposed by the use of a select agent strain
without compromising the assay performance. In addition, supporting data in the form of potency
testing was provided demonstrating that while the Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain is less sensitive to
gamma phage lysis than the Pasteur strain, it is more representative of the gamma phage reaction
when compared with wild-type Bacillus anthracis (e.g., Ames strain) and is therefore a more
appropriate positive control.
In addition to changing the Bacillus anthracis positive control strain from Pasteur to Sterne, the
instructions for use has been updated to include some additional sources and forms (viable
lyophilized cells and/or spore suspension) of both the positive (Bacillus anthracis) and negative
control (Bacillus cereus) materials. As with the original 510k submission, the control materials are
listed as “available controls”. Prior to use these materials are used to prepare fresh cultures of both
the positive or negative controls that are then used as quality control materials for the gamma phage
lysis assay. Testing and validation information was provided for the control materials BC3366,
BC3133 and BC3367 and Certificate of Analysis (COAs) were provided for the control materials
ATCC14579 (from ATCC) and 19102 (from Colorado Serum Company).
The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
4. Comparison Information:
Similarities to applicant’s legally marketed predicate device include:
The procedure for running the Gamma Phage Lysis Assay for testing isolated colonies of gram
positive bacilli with colony morphology typical of Bacillus anthracis outlined in the Gamma Phage
Lysis Assay for the Identification of Bacillus anthracis Instructions for Use remains unchanged. In
addition the procedure for running the positive and negative controls as part of the Quality Control
testing remains unchanged and involves preparation of fresh cultures of the control strains by
inoculation of a Sheep Blood Agar (SBA) plate – streak for isolation and incubate overnight.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: Similarities between the predicate device (K051794) and the proposed device (K143592)
Feature K051794 K143592
Predicate Device Proposed Device
Bacillus anthracis Bacillus anthracis Gamma Phage Suspension 0.5 ml Same
Gamma Phage (BP3123)
Suspension
Specimen Gamma Phage Assay should be performed on Same
isolated colonies of gram positive bacilli with colony
morphology typical of B. anthracis
Materials required but • 5% Sheep Blood Agar plate Same
not supplied • Inoculating loops, 1μl and 10 μl
• Aerosol resistant pipette tips
• Disinfectant
Equipment required • Pipettor, 5-50 μl Same
• Incubator, 35+/- 2 ºC
• Biological Safety Cabinet, Class II
• Refrigerator, 2-8 ºC
Differences to applicant’s legally marketed predicate device include:
The Gamma Phage Lysis Assay for the Identification of Bacillus anthracis Instructions for Use has
been updated to include Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain as the positive control. In addition the
“materials” section has been updated to include some additional sources and forms (viable lyophilized
cells and/or spore suspension) of both the positive and negative control materials (see Table 2).
Table 2: Differences between the predicate device (K051794) and the proposed device (K143592)
Feature K051794 K143592
Predicate Device Proposed Device
Positive Control Bacillus anthracis Pasteur strain spore Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain viable
suspension 1.0 ml (BC3132) lyophilized cells (BC3366)
Colorado Serum Company (19102) Anthrax
Spore Vaccine – 1.0 ml suspension of viable
Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain 34F2 spores
Negative Control Bacillus cereus spore suspension 1.0 Bacillus cereus spore suspension 1.0 ml
ml (BC3133) (BC3133) - same
Bacillus cereus lyophilized cells (BC3367)
ATCC 14579 – Bacillus cereus freeze-dried
(lyophilized)
Reporting – Capsule A positive gamma phage result, in A positive gamma phage result, in
Staining Techniques conjunction with a positive result for conjunction with a positive result for capsule,
capsule, is considered confirmatory is considered confirmatory identification of B.
anthracis. Capsule may be demonstrated by
identification of B. anthracis. Capsule
colony morphology on bicarbonate agar after
may be demonstrated by colony
incubation in enhanced CO2 or by staining
morphology on bicarbonate agar after techniques (India ink or M’Fadyean).
incubation in enhanced CO2 or by
staining techniques (India ink, Difference - Capsule DFA removed.
M'Fadyean, or capsule DFA).
Contact information for the additional sources (Colorado Serum Company and ATTC) was provided
with the following disclaimer “Names of vendors or manufacturers are provided as examples of
suitable product sources. Inclusion does not imply endorsement by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, the Department of Health and Human Services or the Federal Bureau of
Investigation”. The “interpretation of results” section has also been updated with a description and

[Table 1 on page 2]
Feature		K051794			K143592	
		Predicate Device			Proposed Device	
Bacillus anthracis
Gamma Phage
Suspension	Bacillus anthracis Gamma Phage Suspension 0.5 ml
(BP3123)			Same		
Specimen	Gamma Phage Assay should be performed on
isolated colonies of gram positive bacilli with colony
morphology typical of B. anthracis			Same		
Materials required but
not supplied	• 5% Sheep Blood Agar plate
• Inoculating loops, 1μl and 10 μl
• Aerosol resistant pipette tips
• Disinfectant			Same		
Equipment required	• Pipettor, 5-50 μl
• Incubator, 35+/- 2 ºC
• Biological Safety Cabinet, Class II
• Refrigerator, 2-8 ºC			Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Feature		K051794			K143592	
		Predicate Device			Proposed Device	
Positive Control	Bacillus anthracis Pasteur strain spore
suspension 1.0 ml (BC3132)			Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain viable
lyophilized cells (BC3366)
Colorado Serum Company (19102) Anthrax
Spore Vaccine – 1.0 ml suspension of viable
Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain 34F2 spores		
Negative Control	Bacillus cereus spore suspension 1.0
ml (BC3133)			Bacillus cereus spore suspension 1.0 ml
(BC3133) - same
Bacillus cereus lyophilized cells (BC3367)
ATCC 14579 – Bacillus cereus freeze-dried
(lyophilized)		
Reporting – Capsule
Staining Techniques	A positive gamma phage result, in
conjunction with a positive result for
capsule, is considered confirmatory
identification of B. anthracis. Capsule
may be demonstrated by colony
morphology on bicarbonate agar after
incubation in enhanced CO2 or by
staining techniques (India ink,
M'Fadyean, or capsule DFA).			A positive gamma phage result, in
conjunction with a positive result for capsule,
is considered confirmatory identification of B.
anthracis. Capsule may be demonstrated by
colony morphology on bicarbonate agar after
incubation in enhanced CO2 or by staining
techniques (India ink or M’Fadyean).
Difference - Capsule DFA removed.		

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 3
images of what to expect when using the Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain as the positive control.
However, it does not change the interpretation of the quality controls or the wild type strains. The
“reporting” section has been updated to (1) remove capsule DFA as it is no longer used as a staining
technique for this assay and (2) to include the requirement that all test results (positive, negative,
inconclusive) should be submitted to CDC as outlined in the Data Messaging Policy on the secure
LRN website. The Gamma Phage Lysis Assay for the Identification of Bacillus anthracis Instructions
for Use has also been updated to include a “procedure notes” section and “credit” section – which
outlines the agencies involved in the development of the assay.
The package inserts for the positive and negative control materials distributed by CDC for the LRN -
BC3366, BC3367 have been updated/ included to reflect the modifications outlined in the table
above. Minor modifications to update contact emails were also included.
5. Design Control Activities Summary:
A “Declaration of Conformity with Design Controls” statement was submitted for the manufacturing
facility and verification activities. The statements indicate that:
1. The manufacturing facility is in conformance with design control procedure requirements as
specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review – signed by the Chief of the
Scientific Products and Support Branch.
2. The validation activities, as required by the risk analysis, for the modification were performed by
the designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria
were met - signed by a supervisory research microbiologist.
6. Truthful and Accuracy Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement, Package Inserts, Labels
Instructions for Use and the Indications for Use Enclosure:
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.