
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Review Summary
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K143750
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.) MEG-2B Blood Glucose
Monitoring System/ MEG-2B Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System (K120448)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for:
1. Adding silver paint (ABS Chimei 709) to the meter housing
2. Changing the polycarbonate material for the LCD cover.
3. Adding three new agents for cleaning and disinfection: Clorox Bleach Germicidal
Wipes, Medline MicroKill Bleach Germicidal Bleach Wipes, Medline Micro-Kill+
Disinfection, Deodorizing, Cleaning Wipes with Alcohol.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis (Failure Mode and Effect Analysis)
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
Infection Control Studies: The MEG-2B Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for single
patient use and the MEG-2B Pro Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for multiple-patient use.
Disinfection efficacy testing was conducted by outside testing facilities and demonstrated complete
inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) or elimination of Hepatitis B surface antigen (HbsAg) with the
following disinfectants: Dispatch Hospital Cleaner Disinfectant Towels with Bleach (EPA registration #
56392-8), Clorox Germicidal Wipes (EPA registration # 67619-12), Medline MicroKill Bleach Germicidal
Bleach Wipes (EPA registration # 69687-1-37549), and Medline Micro-Kill+ Disinfection, Deodorizing,
Cleaning Wipes with Alcohol (EPA registration # 59894-10-37549). Robustness studies were performed
by the sponsor demonstrating that there were no changes in the performance or external materials of the
meter after 10,950 cleanings and 10,950 disinfection cycles with the Dispatch Hospital Cleaner

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 2
Disinfectant Towels with Bleach (EPA registration # 56392-8), and three additional disinfectants that were
evaluated in the same manner in this submission: Clorox Germicidal Wipes (EPA registration # 67619-
12), Medline MicroKill Bleach Germicidal Bleach Wipes (EPA registration # 69687-1-37549), and Medline
Micro-Kill+ Disinfection, Deodorizing, Cleaning Wipes with Alcohol (EPA registration # 59894-10-37549).
The robustness studies were designed to simulate 3 years of multiple patient use. Labeling was reviewed
for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.