
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K143379
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Measurand:
AFP (Alpha Fetoprotein)
hCG (human Chorionic Gonadotropin)
Unconjugated (free) Estriol (uE3)
Inhibin A
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660, Quality Control Material (assayed and unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, Reserved
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
JJY
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control is intended for use as an assayed quality control
serum to monitor the precision of laboratory testing procedures for the analytes listed in
the package insert.
Analytes are: AFP, hCG, unconjugated Estriol, and Inhibin A
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
None.
I. Device Description:
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control is prepared from defibrinated human plasma with
added human constituents, chemicals, stabilizers and preservatives. Controls are provided in
liquid form in the following configurations:
Level Configuration
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 1 6 x 2.5 mL
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 2 6 x 2.5 mL
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 3 6 x 2.5 mL
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Trilevel MiniPak 3 x 2.5 mL (1 vial per
level)
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Level			Configuration	
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 1			6 x 2.5 mL		
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 2			6 x 2.5 mL		
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Level 3			6 x 2.5 mL		
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control Trilevel MiniPak			3 x 2.5 mL (1 vial per
level)		

--- Page 3 ---
Each human donor unit used to manufacture this control was tested by FDA accepted
methods and found non-reactive for Hepatitis B Surface Antigen (HBsAg), antibody to
Hepatitis C (HCV) and antibody to HIV-1/HIV-2.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Lyphochek Material Serum Control
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k984594
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Lyphochek Maternal
Control Serum Control
Intended Liquichek Maternal Serum II Same
Use Control is intended for use as an
assayed quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory
testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.
Number of Levels 3 Same
Matrix Defibrinated Human Plasma Same
Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
Liquichek Maternal Serum II Lyphochek Maternal
Control Serum Control
Form Liquid Lyophilized
Fill Size 2.5 5 mL
Open Vial Stability 30 days at 2 – 8 °C 10 days at 2 – 8 °C
Shelf Life / Storage -20 to -70 °C, 2 – 8 °C,
(Unopened) until the expiration date until the expiration date
Analytes AFP, hCG, unconjugated Estriol, AFP, hCG, unconjugated
Inhibin A Estriol
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
		Liquichek Maternal Serum II			Lyphochek Maternal	
		Control			Serum Control	
Intended
Use	Liquichek Maternal Serum II
Control is intended for use as an
assayed quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory
testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.			Same		
Number of Levels	3			Same		
Matrix	Defibrinated Human Plasma			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences						
Item		Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
		Liquichek Maternal Serum II			Lyphochek Maternal	
		Control			Serum Control	
Form	Liquid			Lyophilized		
Fill Size	2.5			5 mL		
Open Vial Stability	30 days at 2 – 8 °C			10 days at 2 – 8 °C		
Shelf Life / Storage
(Unopened)	-20 to -70 °C,
until the expiration date			2 – 8 °C,
until the expiration date		
Analytes	AFP, hCG, unconjugated Estriol,
Inhibin A			AFP, hCG, unconjugated
Estriol		

--- Page 4 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Not applicable.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The analytes contained in the Liquichek Maternal Serum II Control are obtained from
commercially available sources, except for Inhibin A which is internally sourced.
Value Assignments:
The mean values and the corresponding ± 3SD ranges are printed in the package
insert for each analyte and level of the control material, for a number of instrument
systems. Values in the package insert are derived from replicate analyses and are
specific for each lot of the product. Tests for value assignment were performed by the
manufacturer and/or independent laboratories using manufacturer supported reagents
and a representative sample of each lot of product. The labeling recommends that
each laboratory establish its own acceptable ranges and use those provided in the
labeling as guides only.
Stability Studies:
Real time stability studies were performed to establish thawed (opened and unopened
vial) stability claims. Accelerated stability studies were performed to establish the
shelf life stability claims, with real-time stability ongoing. Protocols and acceptance
criteria were reviewed and deemed acceptable. The following stabilities for Liquichek
Maternal Serum II Control are supported:
Thawed and Unopened Stability: 40 days at 2 to 8°C
Thawed and opened Stability: 30 days at 2 to 8°C
Shelf Life Stability: 40 months at -20 to -70°C
4

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6