
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k150226
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Quality control material for blood gases
D. Type of Test:
Not Applicable
E. Applicant:
Radiometer Medical ApS
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Hematocrit and Metabolite QUALICHECK
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 862.1660, Quality Control Material (Assayed and Unassayed)
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJS
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See Indications for Use
2. Indication(s) for use:
This Hematocrit and Metabolite QUALICHECK solution is an assayed quality control
system for evaluating the accuracy and precision of all parameters listed on the insert
specifying the control ranges.
Analytes are: cGlucose, cLactate, Hct
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable
I. Device Description:
The Hematocrit and Metabolite QUALICHECK is a two-level quality control system, which
can be used for quality control of the ABL77, ABL555, ABL 605/615/625, ABL 80 FLEX,
ABL 80 Basic, and EML 105. The system consists of 30 ampoules per box. Each ampoule
contains 2 mL of solution. Two levels of different concentrations of analytes for glucose,
lactate, and hematocrit are provided. The quality control is an aqueous solution containing
an organic buffer, acid salts, metabolites, and a preservative.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Radiometer QUALICHECK5+
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k980135
3. Comparison with predicate:
2

--- Page 3 ---
Similarities
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
Radiometer Hematocrit and Radiometer
Metabolite QUALICHECK QUALICHECK5+ k980135
(Candidate Device) (Predicate Device)
Intended Use The Hematocrit and Metabolite
QUALICHECK solution is an
assayed quality control system for
evaluating the accuracy and Same
precision of all parameters listed on
the insert specifying the control
ranges.
Form
Liquid Same
Matrix Aqueous solution Same
Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
Radiometer Hematocrit and Radiometer
Metabolite QUALICHECK QUALICHECK5+ k980135
(Candidate Device) (Predicate Device)
Analytes cGlucose, cLactate, Hct pH, pCO , pO , cNa+, cK+,
2 2
cCa2+, cCl-, cGlucose, cLatate,
ctHb, sO2, FO2Hb, FCOHb,
FMetHb, FHbF, ctBil
Storage 2 °C to 25 °C for 2 years 2 °C to 25 °C until expiration
date including up to 15 days
at up to 32 °C
Levels Two levels Four levels
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
None was referenced
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
			Radiometer Hematocrit and
Metabolite QUALICHECK
(Candidate Device)			Radiometer
QUALICHECK5+ k980135
(Predicate Device)		
Intended Use			The Hematocrit and Metabolite
QUALICHECK solution is an
assayed quality control system for
evaluating the accuracy and
precision of all parameters listed on
the insert specifying the control
ranges.			Same		
Form			Liquid			Same		
Matrix			Aqueous solution			Same		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Differences								
	Item			Candidate Device			Predicate Device	
			Radiometer Hematocrit and
Metabolite QUALICHECK
(Candidate Device)			Radiometer
QUALICHECK5+ k980135
(Predicate Device)		
Analytes			cGlucose, cLactate, Hct			pH, pCO , pO , cNa+, cK+,
2 2
cCa2+, cCl-, cGlucose, cLatate,
ctHb, sO2, FO2Hb, FCOHb,
FMetHb, FHbF, ctBil		
Storage			2 °C to 25 °C for 2 years			2 °C to 25 °C until expiration
date including up to 15 days
at up to 32 °C		
Levels			Two levels			Four levels		

--- Page 4 ---
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability:
The materials are traceable to the following standard materials:
Analyte Unit Traceable to
cGlucose mmol/L NIST Standard Reference Material (SRM) 917b
cLactate mmol/L L-Lactic Acid Lithium Salt (commercial source)
Hematocrit Conductivity
g/dL
(Hct)
Stability:
The shelf-life stability (real time testing) was conducted with three lots of Hematocrit
and Metabolite QUALICHECK Level 1 and 2 at 32 °C for 3 months followed by 25
°C for a total of 25 months. Multiple time points were tested, with six replicates at
each test point. The real-time stability study protocol and acceptance criteria have
been reviewed and found to be adequate. The data indicated that the control solutions
are stable for 24 months at 2 – 25 °C. There is no open-vial (in use) stability claim
since the controls can only be used once. The contents should be used immediately
after opening.
Expected Values/Value assignment
Assigned values and control ranges are established based on the true values and pre-
determined specifications according to the internal procedure. The sponsor provided
assigned values and control ranges for each analyte on each of the 3 different
analyzers. To determine the assigned values and control ranges for the Hematocrit
and Metabolite QUALICHECK, six trays of 1000 ampoules are sampled randomly
from the Hematocrit and Metabolite QUALICHECK batch. Five ampoules are
sampled from each of the 6 trays and 30 ampoules are sampled from the reference
batch. The samples are conditioned and shaken at 25 °C in a water bath for 6 hours.
Measurements of each parameter is performed alternately on the reference ampoules
and the sample ampoules and repeated 5 times on one analyzer platform.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Analyte	Unit	Traceable to
cGlucose	mmol/L	NIST Standard Reference Material (SRM) 917b
cLactate	mmol/L	L-Lactic Acid Lithium Salt (commercial source)
Hematocrit
(Hct)	g/dL	Conductivity

--- Page 5 ---
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values for the representative analyzers are provided in the labeling for each
specific lot. The labeling indicates each laboratory should establish its own acceptable
ranges and use those provided only as a guide.
5

--- Page 6 ---
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6