
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 6
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K151236
B. Purpose for Submission:
New device
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Medtronic Minimed, Inc.
MiniMed Connect System
D. Type of Test or Tests performed:
Continuous glucose monitor and insulin pump secondary display device
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
MiniMed Connect is a secondary display of continuous glucose monitor and/or
insulin pump data on a suitable consumer electronic device for insulin pump patients
and their care partners. This system is designed as an optional accessory to
compatible sensor-augmented pump systems. MiniMed Connect consists of a
MiniMed Connect app (for a local secondary display), the CareLink Connect module
of CareLink Personal (for a remote secondary display), and the MiniMed Connect
uploader (for data transmission to the local app).
The MiniMed Connect uploader is a small, battery-powered, ambulatory device that
is carried with the patient in near proximity to the insulin pump. Its rechargeable
battery is charged as needed (approximately once a day) using a USB Charger that
accompanies the device. The MiniMed Connect uploader receives continuous
glucose monitor and/or insulin pump data from the sensor-augmented insulin pump
using a proprietary 916.5 MHz RF, and then converts it into a 2.4 GHz Bluetooth
Low Energy (BLE) format. This BLE formatted data can then be read by the
MiniMed Connect app installed on a compatible consumer electronics device with
BLE capabilities.
The MiniMed Connect app reads the BLE data transmission and displays it on the
patient’s compatible consumer electronic device. The MiniMed Connect app then
uploads the continuous glucose monitor and/or insulin pump data to CareLink
Connect, the remote monitoring module of CareLink Personal. Authorized care
partners can access CareLink Connect to view the patient’s continuous glucose
monitor and/or insulin pump data through an Internet-enabled consumer electronic
device for the purpose of passive monitoring.

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 6
Accessories associated with this system include:
· USB Charger (for charging the MiniMed Connect uploader)
2. Principles of Operation:
The MiniMed Connect System is a real time secondary display for Continuous
Glucose Monitor data and Insulin Pump data. The MiniMed Connect System
is an accessory to compatible Continuous Glucose Monitors and Insulin
Pumps.
The MiniMed Connect System local mobile application is currently supported
on the Apple iOS Operating System version 8.
The MiniMed Connect System web-based remote application, CareLink
Connect, can be accessed from any internet browser with an internet-connected
consumer electronic device (e.g. iPhone, iPod Touch, Android Phone, personal
computer (PC), Macintosh, etc.).
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer
webserver, or mobile device? Yes X or No .
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission: Yes X or No .
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen Identification is based on time and date of testing.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable. There is no specimen handling in this device; the device transfers
data only.
6. Calibration:
Not applicable
7. Quality Control:
Not applicable
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development
processes for this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 6
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR §862.1350
2. Classification:
Class II, exempt from the premarket notification requirement subject to the
limitations in 21 CFR 862.9
3 Product code:
PJT: Continuous glucose monitor secondary display
PKU: Insulin pump secondary display
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
MiniMed Connect is intended to provide a secondary display of continuous glucose
monitoring and/or insulin pump data on a suitable consumer electronic device to
care partners and users of a MiniMed 530G system or Paradigm REAL-Time Revel
system for the purposes of passive monitoring.
MiniMed Connect system is not intended to replace the real-time display of
continuous glucose monitor and/or insulin pump data on the primary display device
(i.e., the sensor-augmented pump). All therapy decisions should be based on blood
glucose measurements obtained from a blood glucose meter.
The MiniMed Connect is not intended to analyze or modify the continuous glucose
monitor data and/or insulin pump data that it receives. Nor is it intended to control
any function of the connecting continuous glucose monitor system and/or insulin
pump. The MiniMed Connect is not intended to serve as a replacement for a
primary display device for the continuous glucose monitoring system and/or insulin
pump data. The MiniMed Connect is not intended to receive information directly
from the sensor or transmitter of a continuous glucose monitoring system.
2. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Over-the-counter use
This device is not intended for making treatment decisions
This device is not intended for calculating insulin or other drug doses.
This device is not intended for controlling insulin pumps or other drug delivery
systems.
Dosing decisions should not be made based on this device. The user should
follow instructions on the continuous glucose monitoring system.
This device is not intended to replace self-monitoring practices advised by a
physician.

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 6
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s)and 510(k) numbers:
Dexcom Share Direct Secondary Displays, DEN140038
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Medtronic MiniMed Dexcom Share Direct
Connect (K151236) Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)
Intended Use MiniMed Connect is The purpose of the
intended to provide a continuous glucose
secondary display of monitor secondary display
CGM and insulin pump is to notify another person,
information on a suitable the follower, of the
consumer electronic patient’s continuous
device to care partners and glucose monitor system
users of a MiniMed 530G sensor glucose information
system or Paradigm in real time. The secondary
REAL-Time REVEL for display is intended for
the purposes of passive providing secondary
monitoring. It is not notification of a continuous
intended to replace the glucose monitoring system
real-time display of and does not replace
continuous glucose primary real time
monitor and/or insulin continuous glucose
pump data on the primary monitoring or standard
display device. home blood glucose
monitoring.
Sterilization None Same
Primary or Secondary Secondary Same
Display
Data Transmission to BLE Same
Local App
Data Transmission Wi-Fi or Cellular Data Same
from Local App to
Remote App
Local App / Operating Native application for iOS Same
System device
Remote App / Web-based application Native application support
Operating System that can be viewed on any for iOS; additional
mobile operating system operating systems under
development

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Medtronic MiniMed
Connect (K151236)			Dexcom Share Direct
Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)		
Intended Use			MiniMed Connect is
intended to provide a
secondary display of
CGM and insulin pump
information on a suitable
consumer electronic
device to care partners and
users of a MiniMed 530G
system or Paradigm
REAL-Time REVEL for
the purposes of passive
monitoring. It is not
intended to replace the
real-time display of
continuous glucose
monitor and/or insulin
pump data on the primary
display device.			The purpose of the
continuous glucose
monitor secondary display
is to notify another person,
the follower, of the
patient’s continuous
glucose monitor system
sensor glucose information
in real time. The secondary
display is intended for
providing secondary
notification of a continuous
glucose monitoring system
and does not replace
primary real time
continuous glucose
monitoring or standard
home blood glucose
monitoring.		
Sterilization			None			Same		
Primary or Secondary
Display			Secondary			Same		
Data Transmission to
Local App			BLE			Same		
Data Transmission
from Local App to
Remote App			Wi-Fi or Cellular Data			Same		
Local App / Operating
System			Native application for iOS
device			Same		
Remote App /
Operating System			Web-based application
that can be viewed on any
mobile operating system			Native application support
for iOS; additional
operating systems under
development		

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 6
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Web Server Data storage Same
Data Upload Local app receives data Same
every 5 minutes; sends
data to the web server and
remote app every 5
minutes
Medtronic MiniMed Dexcom Share Direct
Connect (K151236) Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)
Alerts / Notifications – No alarms/alerts for local Same
local app app, alarms/alerts for
remote app only
Alerts / Notifications – User configurable Same
remote app alarms/alerts
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Medtronic Minimed Dexcom Share Direct
Connect (K151236) Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)
BLE Converter Hardware component (i.e., BLUE installed within
MiniMed uploader) primary display (i.e.,
converts 916.5 MHz receiver); no additional
proprietary RF from hardware
primary display (i.e.,
pump) to 2.4 GHz BLUE
Display Contents CGM and/or insulin pump CGM
data

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Web Server			Data storage			Same		
Data Upload			Local app receives data
every 5 minutes; sends
data to the web server and
remote app every 5
minutes			Same		
			Medtronic MiniMed
Connect (K151236)			Dexcom Share Direct
Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)		
Alerts / Notifications –
local app			No alarms/alerts for local
app, alarms/alerts for
remote app only			Same		
Alerts / Notifications –
remote app			User configurable
alarms/alerts			Same		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			Medtronic Minimed
Connect (K151236)			Dexcom Share Direct
Secondary Displays
(DEN140038)		
BLE Converter			Hardware component (i.e.,
MiniMed uploader)
converts 916.5 MHz
proprietary RF from
primary display (i.e.,
pump) to 2.4 GHz BLUE			BLUE installed within
primary display (i.e.,
receiver); no additional
hardware		
Display Contents			CGM and/or insulin pump
data			CGM		

--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 6
I. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
EN 60601-1 – Medical electrical equipment – Part1: general requirements for basic
safety and essential performance
IEC 60601-1-2 – Medical electrical equipment – Part 2: general requirements for
basic safety and essential performance – collateral standard: electromagnetic
compatibility – requirements and tests (edition 3)
IEC 60601-1-6 - Medical electrical equipment – Parts 1-6: general requirements for
basic safety and essential performance – collateral standard: usability
IEC 60601-1-11 Medical electrical equipment – Parts 1-11: general requirements
for basic safety and essential performance – collateral standard: Medical
electrical systems used in the home healthcare environment
IEC 62304 – Medical device software – software life cycle process
IEC 62366 – Medical devices – application of usability engineering to medical
devices
ISO 14971 – Medical devices – application of risk management
ISO 15223-1 – Medical devices – symbols to be used with medical devices labels,
labeling, and information to be supplied – part 1: general requirements
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a) Accuracy:
Not applicable.
b) Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
c) Linearity:
Not applicable.
d) Carryover:
Not applicable.
e) Interfering Substances:
Not applicable.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
1. The sponsor performed a bench study in order to demonstrate that the
device transmitted and stored accurately and securely. Testing was also
carried out to verify that corrupted data could not be displayed. All data
was shown to be accurately transmitted by the device. It was verified that
the data is stored on the mobile device in an encrypted state, and that it is
transmitted over secure channels. When purposely corrupted data was
transmitted to the application, the application correctly did not display that
information.
2. The MiniMed Connect system was evaluated for usability using a
representative population. Study participants consisted of twenty-five (25)

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 6
patients with diabetes mellitus, currently undergoing treatment with a
MiniMed Paradigm pump (i.e., Revel or 530G) and with continuous
glucose monitoring capability.
Study participants were presented with typical tasks associated with use of
the device. Selected tasks that were identified to be either high or medium
usability risk during task analysis were assessed. Use errors and near errors
committed by participants during the course of the study were collected.
The type, frequency, and anticipated consequences of these errors were
assessed and assigned a usability risk severity according to the task
analysis. Subjective feedback was also collected on the observed errors and
included in the analysis.
The use errors reported during the study were judged to be nuisance issues,
and involved users having difficulty pairing the device with the mobile
app. These errors were primarily caused by users not reading the provided
user guide before attempting a task.
Based on the results of this testing, the MiniMed Connect system was
determined to be adequately safe and effective for its intended use and the
intended environment.
3. The results of a Flesch-Kincaid readability analysis for the MiniMed
Connect system user guide were provided. The user guide achieves a score
of Flesch-Kincaid grade level equivalent to 8th grade, which is in the
acceptable range.
4. The sponsor provided the appropriate documentation certifying that
mechanical, electrical, and electromagnetic testing had been evaluated and
found to be compliant.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.