
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER: k153238
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device, FreeStyle InsuLinx
Blood Glucose Monitoring System (k120568). Submitter’s statement that the
INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT
CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling,
and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as
they do not affect the intended use).
2. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for changing the wipes used for cleaning and disinfection from Dispatch hospital
cleaner disinfectant towels with bleach, EPA # 56392-8 to Clorox healthcare bleach germicidal wipes,
EPA #67619-2.
3. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and performance characteristics
Studies performed include disinfection robustness testing to verify that the meter meets the
acceptance criteria which is to pass the tests to stay functional after cleaning and disinfecting. In
addition, disinfection efficacy testing was done to ensure that the meter meets the disinfection
requirements.
4. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The FreeStyle InsuLinx Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for the quantitative measurement
of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood samples for a single person. Disinfection efficacy of the Clorox
Healthcare Bleach Germicidal Wipes (EPA #67619-12) was validated using materials from the meters
demonstrating complete inactivation of duck hepatitis B virus (HBV). The sponsor also performed
robustness studies demonstrating that there was no change in performance or in the materials of the
FreeStyle InsuLinx Blood Glucose Monitoring System after 522 cleaning and 522 disinfection cycles (1
cycle per week for 5 years) designed to simulate five years use life of the device. The labeling was
reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures.