
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Memorandum
To: The Surgeon General, Department of the Army RE: K152523
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
Trade Name: JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit
510(k) number: K111775
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S).
The modification presented in this special 510k submission is the inclusion of 5 influenza A strain
isolates to the analytical inclusivity table in the package insert. The five strain isolates are
A/Anhui/1/2013 (H7N9), A/Victoria/361/2011 (H3N2), A/Perth/16/2009 (H3N2),
A/West/Virginia/06/2011 (H3N2v), and A/Minnesota/11/2010 (H3N2v). The submitter tested the
ability of the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit to detect these 5 additional viral strains. Viral
stocks were spiked into negative nasopharyngeal swab matrix and tested in triplicate at a single
concentration. All strains were appropriately detected by the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics:
Table 1. Similarities Between the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit (this
submission) and the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit (K111775).
Proposed Device Predicate Device
JBAIDS Influenza A and B Detection JBAIDS Influenza A and B
Element
kit (K152523) Detection kit (K11775)
The Joint Biological Agent The Joint Biological Agent
Identification and Diagnostic System Identification and Diagnostic System
(JBAIDS) Influenza A & B Detection (JBAIDS) Influenza A & B Detection
Kit is intended for use on the JBAIDS Kit is intended for use on the JBAIDS
instruments, for the in vitro qualitative instruments, for the in vitro qualitative
detection of influenza A and influenza detection of influenza A and influenza
B viral nucleic acids isolated and B viral nucleic acids isolated and
Intended Use purified nasopharyngeal swab (NPS) purified from nasopharyngeal swab
and nasopharyngeal wash (NPW) (NPS) and nasopharyngeal wash
specimens from human patients with (NPW) specimens from human
signs and symptoms of respiratory patients with signs and symptoms of
infection. respiratory infection.
The JBAIDS Influenza A & B The JBAIDS Influenza A & B
Detection Kit contains reverse Detection Kit contains reverse

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Proposed Device	Predicate Device
Element	JBAIDS Influenza A and B Detection
kit (K152523)	JBAIDS Influenza A and B
Detection kit (K11775)
Intended Use	The Joint Biological Agent
Identification and Diagnostic System
(JBAIDS) Influenza A & B Detection
Kit is intended for use on the JBAIDS
instruments, for the in vitro qualitative
detection of influenza A and influenza
B viral nucleic acids isolated and
purified nasopharyngeal swab (NPS)
and nasopharyngeal wash (NPW)
specimens from human patients with
signs and symptoms of respiratory
infection.
The JBAIDS Influenza A & B
Detection Kit contains reverse	The Joint Biological Agent
Identification and Diagnostic System
(JBAIDS) Influenza A & B Detection
Kit is intended for use on the JBAIDS
instruments, for the in vitro qualitative
detection of influenza A and influenza
B viral nucleic acids isolated and
purified from nasopharyngeal swab
(NPS) and nasopharyngeal wash
(NPW) specimens from human
patients with signs and symptoms of
respiratory infection.
The JBAIDS Influenza A & B
Detection Kit contains reverse

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
transcriptase real-time polymerase transcriptase real time polymerase
chain reaction (rRT-PCR) assays that chain reaction (rRT-PCR) assays that
target the Matrix protein gene of target the Matrix protein gene of
influenza A viruses, and the Non- influenza A viruses, and the Non-
structural protein gene of influenza B structural protein gene of influenza B
viruses. This kit is not intended to viruses. This kit is not intended to
detect influenza C viruses. detect influenza C viruses.
Test results are to be used in Test results are to be used in
conjunction with other clinical and conjunction with other clinical and
epidemiological information. Negative epidemiological information. Negative
results do not preclude influenza virus results do not preclude influenza virus
infection and should not be used as infection and should not be used as
the sole basis for treatment or other the sole basis for treatment or other
patient management decisions. patient management decisions.
Performance characteristics for Performance characteristics for
detection of influenza A were detection of influenza A were
established when 2009 H1N1 established when 2009 H1N1
Influenza, Influenza A H1N1, and Influenza, Influenza A H1N1, and
Influenza A H3N2 were the Influenza A H3N2 were the
predominant influenza A viruses in predominant influenza A viruses in
circulation. Due to low seasonal circulation. Due to low seasonal
prevalence, performance prevalence, performance
characteristics for detection of characteristics for detection of
seasonal Influenza A/H1 were seasonal Influenza A/H1 were
established primarily with established primarily with
retrospective and surrogate clinical retrospective and surrogate clinical
specimens. When other influenza A specimens. When other influenza A
viruses are present, performance viruses are present, performance
characteristics may vary. characteristics may vary.
All users, analysts, and any person All users, analysts, and any person
reporting diagnostic results from use reporting diagnostic results from use
of this device should be trained to of this device should be trained to
perform and interpret the results from perform and interpret the results from
this procedure by JBAIDS instructors this procedure by JBAIDS instructors
or designees prior to use. Use of this or designees prior to use. Use of this
device is limited to designated device is limited to designated
Department of Defense (DoD) Department of Defense (DoD)
laboratories equipped with the laboratories equipped with the
JBAIDS instruments. JBAIDS instruments.
If infection with a novel influenza A If infection with a novel influenza A
virus is suspected based on current virus is suspected based on current
clinical and epidemiological screening clinical and epidemiological screening
criteria recommended by public health criteria recommended by public health
authorities, specimens should be authorities, specimens should be
collected with appropriate infection collected with appropriate infection
control precautions for novel virulent control precautions for novel virulent
influenza viruses and sent to state or influenza viruses and sent to state or

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
local health departments for testing. local health departments for testing.
Viral culture should not be attempted Viral culture should not be attempted
in these cases unless a biosafety in these cases unless a biosafety
laboratory (BSL) 3+ facility is available laboratory (BSL) 3+ facility is available
to receive and culture specimens. to receive and culture specimens.
Real time PCR using hydrolysis
Technology Same
probes
Qualitative in vitro detection of
Virus
Influenza A and Influenza B virus Same
Detected
nucleic acids
Specimen Nasopharyngeal swabs and
Same
Types Nasopharyngeal washes
IT 1-2-3™ Platinum Path Sample
Extraction Purification Kit and Roche MagNA
Same
Methods Pure Compact Nucleic Acid Isolation
Kit I
Required
JBAIDS Instrument Same
Information
Interpretation Automated analysis of test results and
Same
of Test controls
Reagent Reagents are stored at room
Same
Storage temperature
Table 2. Differences Between the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit (this
submission) and the JBAIDS Influenza A & B Detection Kit (K111775)
Proposed Device Predicate Device
JBAIDS Influenza A and B Detection kit JBAIDS Influenza A and B
Element
(K152523) Detection kit (K11775)
Demonstrated inclusive detection of one strain of
Not labeled for detection
Organisms Influenza A H7N9, two strains of Influenza H3N2
of Influenza A for these
Detected and 2 strains of Influenza H3N2v as positive for
strains
Influenza A
Demonstrated detection of A H3N2v and A H7N9
Nasopharyngeal washes
Specimen from simulated nasopharyngeal swabs. No testing
and Nasopharygeal
Types of these strains has been performed on
swabs
nasopharyngeal washes.
Demonstrated detection of Influenza A H3N2v
and A H7N9 from simulated nasopharyngeal IT 1-2-3™ Platinum Path
swab samples extracted using the IT 1-2-3™ Sample Purification Kit
Extraction
Platinum Path Sample Purification Kit. No testing and Roche MagNA
Methods
of these strains was performed on samples Pure Compact Nucleic
extracted using the Roche MagNA Pure Compact Acid Isolation Kit I
Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit.
Other Differences:
The package insert has been updated to include detection of 5 influenza strains to the Analytical
Inclusivity section.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Technology	Real time PCR using hydrolysis
probes	Same
Virus
Detected	Qualitative in vitro detection of
Influenza A and Influenza B virus
nucleic acids	Same
Specimen
Types	Nasopharyngeal swabs and
Nasopharyngeal washes	Same
Extraction
Methods	IT 1-2-3™ Platinum Path Sample
Purification Kit and Roche MagNA
Pure Compact Nucleic Acid Isolation
Kit I	Same
Required
Information	JBAIDS Instrument	Same
Interpretation
of Test	Automated analysis of test results and
controls	Same
Reagent
Storage	Reagents are stored at room
temperature	Same

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Proposed Device	Predicate Device
Element	JBAIDS Influenza A and B Detection kit
(K152523)	JBAIDS Influenza A and B
Detection kit (K11775)
Organisms
Detected	Demonstrated inclusive detection of one strain of
Influenza A H7N9, two strains of Influenza H3N2
and 2 strains of Influenza H3N2v as positive for
Influenza A	Not labeled for detection
of Influenza A for these
strains
Specimen
Types	Demonstrated detection of A H3N2v and A H7N9
from simulated nasopharyngeal swabs. No testing
of these strains has been performed on
nasopharyngeal washes.	Nasopharyngeal washes
and Nasopharygeal
swabs
Extraction
Methods	Demonstrated detection of Influenza A H3N2v
and A H7N9 from simulated nasopharyngeal
swab samples extracted using the IT 1-2-3™
Platinum Path Sample Purification Kit. No testing
of these strains was performed on samples
extracted using the Roche MagNA Pure Compact
Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit.	IT 1-2-3™ Platinum Path
Sample Purification Kit
and Roche MagNA
Pure Compact Nucleic
Acid Isolation Kit I

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
The following statement was added to the Analytical Inclusivity section of the package insert:
“Although this test has been shown to detect novel avian influenza A (H7N9) and H3N2v cultured
viruses the performance characteristics of this device with clinical specimens that are positive for
novel avian influenza A (H7N9) and H3N2v influenza viruses has not been established. The JBAIDS
Influenza A & B Detection Kit can distinguish between influenza A and B viruses, but it cannot
differentiate influenza A subtypes.”
The following text was added to the front page of the package insert: “For Prescription Use only”
6. Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) A potential hazard of false negative results due to emerging viruses was identified during the risk
analysis. The submitter performed post-market surveillance of emerging influenza strains that
could pose a risk for false negative tests. The submitter identified five strain isolates. To mitigate
the risk of false negatives for these isolates, the submitter conducted analytical inclusivity study
and confirmed that their device detected these isolates. The inclusivity results were included in
the package insert.
b) The sponsor updated the risk analysis for this product, as well as creating additional design
history documents (tracing to verification/validation of acceptance criteria) in conformance with
the design control procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30.
c) Declaration of Conformity with Design Controls
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the device manufacturing facility. It
was signed by the Director of Regulated Products and the Director of Quality Assurance.
d) Included in the submission were the following statements to indicate conformity:
“As required by the risk analysis, all verification and validation activities were performed by the
designated individuals and the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria
were met as described more fully in Section 6 of the Special 510(k) Submissions for the JBAIDS
Influenza A & B Detection and A Subtyping Kits.”
“The BioFire Defense, LLC manufacturing facility is in conformance with the design control
procedure requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820.30 and the records are available for review.
No recent Quality System inspections have resulted in the issuance of a violative inspection
report.”
Conclusion:
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. On this basis, I recommend
the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.