
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: Hologic, Inc. RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K153219
This special 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S
own Class II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
Trade Name: Prodesse® ProFluTM+ Assay
510(k) number: K132129
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
The submitter states the intended use remains the same (510k summary). The intended use included
for the new device is the same as the intended use in the predicate (k132129).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S).
The modification presented in this special 510(k) is the inclusion of one additional viral strain to the
table of analytical reactivity in the labeling. The submitter tested the ability of the Prodesse ProFlu+
Assay to detect the Influenza A/H3N2 strain, A/New York/1/2015. A clinical isolate with a confirmed
identity and titer was diluted in negative nasopharyngeal swab matrix to a concentration (2x101
TCID50/ml) near the estimated LoD. The reactivity of the strain at this concentration was tested with
three replicate samples. The assay detected each of the three replicates. This strain was added to
the table of reactive strains in the package insert.
The predicate included an equivalency study to claim two extraction methods (Roche MagNA Pure
LC and bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG), but the predicate used only the Roche instrument in the
analytical reactivity study. The new device modification used the bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG to
extract the additional strain for reactivity. Therefore, the analytical reactivity section of the new
package insert labeling was revised to include the statement “Viral strains were extracted using the
Roche MagNA Pure LC or bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG and tested in triplicate in each assay.”
This statement is a new revision of the package insert.
The analytical reactivity section of the new package insert was revised to include the statement
“Viruses present at concentrations below those tested for Reactivity may not be detected by the
ProFlu+ Assay.” This statement is not included in the predicate labeling, but it does not change the
safety or effectiveness of the device.
During interactive review, the labeling (instructions for use) was revised to include “Rx only” on the
front page. The predicate had no “Rx only” in the package insert.
In this submission, there were two new versions of package insert that are identical except that each
had a different order number and different number of reactions included in the kit (either 100 and
1500 Rxns, or 2000 Rxns). The predicate had only one version of package insert (100 and 1500
Rxns).

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 5
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The product description in the labeling of the device is the same as the predicate and the submitter
stated that the scientific technology is unchanged compared to the predicate.
5. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including labeling, intended use, other characteristics.
Similarities and Differences
Modified
Element Prodesse Current Prodesse ProFlu+ Assay (K132129)
ProFlu+ Assay
Similarities
The Prodesse® ProFluTM+ Assay is a multiplex
Real-Time PCR (RT-PCR) in vitro diagnostic test
for the rapid and qualitative detection and
discrimination of Influenza A Virus, Influenza B
Virus, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
nucleic acids isolated and purified from
nasopharyngeal (NP) swab specimens obtained
from symptomatic patients. This test is intended
for use to aid in the differential diagnosis of
Influenza A, Influenza B and RSV viral infections
in humans and is not intended to detect Influenza
C.
Negative results do not preclude influenza or
RSV virus infection and should not be used as
the sole basis for treatment or other
management decisions. Conversely, positive
Intended Use Same results do not rule out bacterial infection or co-
infection with other viruses. The agent detected
may not be the definite cause of disease. The
use of additional laboratory testing and clinical
presentation must be considered in order to
obtain the final diagnosis of respiratory viral
infection.
Performance characteristics for Influenza A Virus
were established when Influenza A/H3 and A/H1
were the predominant Influenza A viruses in
circulation (2006 – 2007 respiratory season).
Performance characteristics for Influenza A were
confirmed when Influenza A/H1, Influenza A/H3,
and Influenza A/2009 H1N1 were the
predominant Influenza A viruses in circulation
(2008 and 2009). When other Influenza A viruses
are emerging, performance characteristics may

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Similarities and Differences					
Element			Modified		Current Prodesse ProFlu+ Assay (K132129)	
			Prodesse			
			ProFlu+ Assay			
Similarities						
Intended Use		Same			The Prodesse® ProFluTM+ Assay is a multiplex
Real-Time PCR (RT-PCR) in vitro diagnostic test
for the rapid and qualitative detection and
discrimination of Influenza A Virus, Influenza B
Virus, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV)
nucleic acids isolated and purified from
nasopharyngeal (NP) swab specimens obtained
from symptomatic patients. This test is intended
for use to aid in the differential diagnosis of
Influenza A, Influenza B and RSV viral infections
in humans and is not intended to detect Influenza
C.
Negative results do not preclude influenza or
RSV virus infection and should not be used as
the sole basis for treatment or other
management decisions. Conversely, positive
results do not rule out bacterial infection or co-
infection with other viruses. The agent detected
may not be the definite cause of disease. The
use of additional laboratory testing and clinical
presentation must be considered in order to
obtain the final diagnosis of respiratory viral
infection.
Performance characteristics for Influenza A Virus
were established when Influenza A/H3 and A/H1
were the predominant Influenza A viruses in
circulation (2006 – 2007 respiratory season).
Performance characteristics for Influenza A were
confirmed when Influenza A/H1, Influenza A/H3,
and Influenza A/2009 H1N1 were the
predominant Influenza A viruses in circulation
(2008 and 2009). When other Influenza A viruses
are emerging, performance characteristics may	

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 5
vary.
If infection with a novel Influenza A virus is
suspected based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening criteria recommended
by public health authorities, specimens should be
collected with appropriate infection control
precautions for novel virulent Influenza viruses
and send to state or local health department for
testing. Viral culture should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is available
to receive and culture specimens.
Organisms Influenza A virus, Influenza B virus, Respiratory
Same
Detected Syncytial Virus
Analyte Same RNA
Technological
Same Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
Principles
Specimen
Same Nasopharyngeal Swab
Types
User Complexity Same High
Sample Preparation Up front sample processing is required to extract
Same
Method nucleic acid.
bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG or Roche
Instrumentation Same MagNA Pure and Cepheid SmartCycler II
Instrument
Time to result Same Approximately 4 hours
Internal control in each sample. External control
Controls Same
processed with each batch of samples.
Differences
Analytical reactivity Influenza A/H3N2
Influenza A/H3N2 strain, A/New York/1/2015 was
with new Influenza strain, A/New
not listed in the Reactivity Table of the PI
A strain York/1/2015
6. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
1. Reactivity testing was conducted as described in Section 3, Device Modifications.
2. Risk Analysis
The method used for the Risk Analysis for the Prodesse ProFlu+ Assay was the Failure Mode
Effects Analysis (FMEA). This method is consistent with 21 CFR 820.30. The following table
summarizes the risk analysis.

[Table 1 on page 3]
Organisms
Detected		Same	Influenza A virus, Influenza B virus, Respiratory
Syncytial Virus	
Analyte		Same	RNA	
Technological
Principles		Same	Multiplex nucleic acid amplification	
Specimen
Types		Same	Nasopharyngeal Swab	
User Complexity		Same	High	
Sample Preparation
Method		Same	Up front sample processing is required to extract
nucleic acid.	
Instrumentation		Same	bioMérieux NucliSENS easyMAG or Roche
MagNA Pure and Cepheid SmartCycler II
Instrument	
Time to result		Same	Approximately 4 hours	
Controls		Same	Internal control in each sample. External control
processed with each batch of samples.	
	Differences			
Analytical reactivity
with new Influenza
A strain		Influenza A/H3N2
strain, A/New
York/1/2015	Influenza A/H3N2 strain, A/New York/1/2015 was
not listed in the Reactivity Table of the PI	

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5
Assay No. Potential Risk Risk Justification
Cause of Priority
Failure Number
(RPN)
ProFlu+ 30 New strain Original 30 Ongoing Risk Control
emerges and activities include continued
its nucleic monitoring of all complaints,
acid tracking circulating strains
sequence is and any pertinent sequence
undetectable information at least
by the device annually.
Testing showed that nucleic
acid of the new strain,
A/New York/1/2015, is
detectable by the
ProFlu+Assay at a
concentration comparable to
other H3N2 strains listed in
Reactivity section of the IFU
(2x101 TCID50/mL).
The risk of a false negative result was identified as a potential hazard that could occur if a
new strain emerges and its nucleic acid sequence is undetectable by the device. This risk
was addressed by conducting reactivity testing of an additional viral strain with the ProFlu+
assay and through updating the package insert.
3. Declaration of Conformity to Design Controls
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the Hologic manufacturing facility.
It was signed by an R&D Scientist, and the Regulatory Affairs Manager. The statements
indicate that:
a. “To the best of my knowledge, the verification activities for the modification were
performed by the designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that the
predetermined acceptance criteria were met.”
b. The manufacturing facility, Hologic, Inc. is in conformance with the design control
requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820. 3 0 and the records are available for
review.
7. A Truth and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary and the Indications for Use enclosure were
included in the submission.
8. Conclusion
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.

[Table 1 on page 4]
Assay	No.	Potential
Cause of
Failure	Risk	Risk
Priority
Number
(RPN)	Justification
ProFlu+	30	New strain
emerges and
its nucleic
acid
sequence is
undetectable
by the device	Original	30	Ongoing Risk Control
activities include continued
monitoring of all complaints,
tracking circulating strains
and any pertinent sequence
information at least
annually.
Testing showed that nucleic
acid of the new strain,
A/New York/1/2015, is
detectable by the
ProFlu+Assay at a
concentration comparable to
other H3N2 strains listed in
Reactivity section of the IFU
(2x101 TCID50/mL).