
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K160445
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device: HemosIL Silica
Clotting Time (K050221)
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use
and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail, demonstrated that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for modification of the Summary and Principle section and the
Limitations/Interfering Substances section of the HemosIL Silica Clotting Time insert sheet, in which
the heparin interference reference levels was replaced with a statement to indicate that patient
samples containing heparin may exhibit falsely prolonged clotting times which could lead to incorrect
results.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including labeling, intended use/indication for use, methodology, insert sheet, physical
characteristics are located in 510(k) Summary.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis. The Risk Analysis was conducted in
accordance with ISO 14971, Medical devices ‒ Application of risk management to medical
devices. Since there are no modifications to the design, manufacture, performance
characteristics, or intended use of the product, the proposed change to the HemosIL Silica
Clotting Time package insert sheet has no impact on the safety or effectiveness of the product.
b) Based on the risk analysis of the proposed change to the package insert sheet of HemosIL Silica
Clotting Time product, no verification or validation studies are required to support the changes
and there is on impact on the safety or effectiveness of the product.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.