
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: Biofire Diagnostics LLC RE: K160068
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
Trade Name: FilmArray Respiratory Panel (RP) for use with Multi-Instrument FilmArray System (2.0)
510(k) Number: K143080
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device, called
“FilmArray® Respiratory Panel for use with FilmArray Torch”, as described in its labeling HAS NOT
CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use, and package
labeling.
Submitter states in the labeling, 510(k) Summary, and in the submission that the intended use of the
modified device has not changed from its predicate.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, assay instruction and instrument operations manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not
changed.
The modifications of the FilmArrayTorch comprise a reconfigured instrument to increase
throughput and reduce workspace. Changes include:
• a reconfigured base instrument tower with optional, stacked, individual, instrument modules,
• workflow altered for a manual read of the assay pouch bar-code by operator instead of automatic
read within instrument,
• automatic side-loading and ejection of the assay pouch instead of manual top-loading,
• printer optional instead of printer included,
• computer and touch screen integrated into the base tower instead of a separate computer,
• operation with kiosk-style software,
• labeling appended with additional operation procedure and with statements describing the
validation studies; these studies included an intra-laboratory precision study for the modified
device.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and software is shown in the table
below.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 4
Predicate:
Modified Device:
FilmArray Respiratory Panel for
FilmArray Respiratory Panel for use with use with the Multi-instrument
Element
FilmArray Torch FilmArray System (FilmArray
2.0)
(K160068)
(K143080)
Organisms Influenza A, Influenza A subtype H1, Same
Detected Influenza A subtype H3, Influenza A subtype
2009 H1, Influenza B, Respiratory Syncytial
Virus, Human Metapneumovirus,
Adenovirus, Parainfluenza 1, Parainfluenza
2, Parainfluenza virus 3, Parainfluenza 4,
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Coronavirus
HKU1, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus
229E, Coronavirus OC43, Mycoplasma
pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae,
and Bordetella pertussis.
Analyte RNA/DNA Same
Specimen Nasopharyngeal swabs Same
Types
Technological Nested multiplex RT-PCR followed by high Same
Principles resolution melting analysis to confirm identity
of amplified product.
Instrumentation Single instrument FilmArray system, Single instrument FilmArray
FilmArray 2.0 system, or FilmArray Torch system or FilmArray 2.0 system
system
Instrument-
Communication for multiple FilmArray Torch
Software Same (multiple instruments)
Modules travels via Ethernet cable/port.
Communication
Time to result About 1 hour Same
Test Automated test interpretation and report Same
Interpretation generation. User cannot access raw data.
Reagent Syringe-based loading procedure or Same
Hydration and FilmArray Injection Vial-based loading
Sample Loading procedure
Sample Sample Processing is automated in the Same
Preparation FilmArray RP pouch.
Method
Reagent Reagents are stored at room temperature. Same
Storage
Controls Two controls are included in each reagent Same
pouch to monitor sample processing and
both stages of PCR and melt analysis.
User Moderate/Low Same
Complexity
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Element	Modified Device:
FilmArray Respiratory Panel for use with
FilmArray Torch
(K160068)		Predicate:	
			FilmArray Respiratory Panel for	
			use with the Multi-instrument	
			FilmArray System (FilmArray	
			2.0)	
			(K143080)	
Organisms
Detected	Influenza A, Influenza A subtype H1,
Influenza A subtype H3, Influenza A subtype
2009 H1, Influenza B, Respiratory Syncytial
Virus, Human Metapneumovirus,
Adenovirus, Parainfluenza 1, Parainfluenza
2, Parainfluenza virus 3, Parainfluenza 4,
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Coronavirus
HKU1, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus
229E, Coronavirus OC43, Mycoplasma
pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae,
and Bordetella pertussis.	Same		
Analyte	RNA/DNA	Same		
Specimen
Types	Nasopharyngeal swabs	Same		
Technological
Principles	Nested multiplex RT-PCR followed by high
resolution melting analysis to confirm identity
of amplified product.	Same		
Instrumentation	Single instrument FilmArray system,
FilmArray 2.0 system, or FilmArray Torch
system	Single instrument FilmArray
system or FilmArray 2.0 system		
Instrument-
Software
Communication	Communication for multiple FilmArray Torch
Modules travels via Ethernet cable/port.	Same (multiple instruments)		
Time to result	About 1 hour	Same		
Test
Interpretation	Automated test interpretation and report
generation. User cannot access raw data.	Same		
Reagent
Hydration and
Sample Loading	Syringe-based loading procedure or
FilmArray Injection Vial-based loading
procedure	Same		
Sample
Preparation
Method	Sample Processing is automated in the
FilmArray RP pouch.	Same		
Reagent
Storage	Reagents are stored at room temperature.	Same		
Controls	Two controls are included in each reagent
pouch to monitor sample processing and
both stages of PCR and melt analysis.	Same		
User
Complexity	Moderate/Low	Same		

[Table 2 on page 2]
Modified Device:
FilmArray Respiratory Panel for use with
FilmArray Torch
(K160068)

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 4
The indications for use provided below are identical for both devices.
FilmArray 2.0 (K143080) Indications for use (same as K160068):
The FilmArray Respiratory Panel (RP) is a multiplexed nucleic acid test intended for use with
FilmArray systems for the simultaneous qualitative detection and identification of multiple respiratory
viral and bacterial nucleic acids in nasopharyngeal swabs (NPS) obtained from individuals suspected
of respiratory tract infections. The following organism types and subtypes are identified using the
FilmArray RP: Adenovirus, Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus HKU1, Coronavirus NL63, Coronavirus
OC43, Human Metapneumovirus, Influenza A, Influenza A subtype H1, Influenza A subtype H3,
Influenza A subtype 2009 H1, Influenza B, Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2,
Parainfluenza Virus 3, Parainfluenza Virus 4, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Respiratory Syncytial
Virus, Bordetella pertussis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, and Mycoplasma pneumoniae. The
detection and identification of specific viral and bacterial nucleic acids from individuals exhibiting signs
and symptoms of a respiratory infection aids in the diagnosis of respiratory infection if used in
conjunction with other clinical and epidemiological information. The results of this test should not be
used as the sole basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other management decisions. Negative results in
the setting of a respiratory illness may be due to infection with pathogens that are not detected by this
test or, lower respiratory tract infection that is not detected by a nasopharyngeal swab specimen.
Positive results do not rule out co- infection with other organisms: the agent(s) detected by the Film
Array RP may not be the definite cause of disease. Additional laboratory testing (e.g. bacterial and
viral culture, immunofluorescence, and radiography) may be necessary when evaluating a patient
with possible respiratory tract infection.
Due to the small number of positive specimens collected for certain organisms during the prospective
clinical study, performance characteristics for Bordetella pertussis, Coronavirus 229E, Coronavirus
OC43, Influenza A H1, Influenza A H3, Influenza A H1-2009, Influenza B, Mycoplasma pneumoniae,
Parainfluenza Virus 1, Parainfluenza Virus 2, and Parainfluenza Virus 4 were established primarily
with retrospective clinical specimens. Performance characteristics for Chlamydophila pneumoniae
were established primarily using contrived clinical specimens.
Due to the genetic similarity between Human Rhinovirus and Enterovirus, the FilmArray RP cannot
reliably differentiate them. A positive FilmArray RP Rhinovirus/Enterovirus result should be followed-
up using an alternate method (e.g., cell culture or sequence analysis).
The FilmArray RP assay for Coronavirus OC43 may cross-react with some isolates of Coronavirus
HKU1. A dual positive result may be due to cross-reactivity or may indicate a co-infection.
Performance characteristics for Influenza A were established when Influenza A 2009 H1N1, A H1,
and A H3 were the predominant Influenza A viruses in circulation. Performance of detecting Influenza
A may vary if other Influenza A strains are circulating or a novel Influenza A virus emerges. If infection
with a novel Influenza A virus is suspected based on current clinical and epidemiological screening
criteria recommended by public health authorities, specimens should be collected with appropriate
infection control precautions for novel virulent Influenza viruses and sent to state or local health
departments for testing. Viral culture should not be attempted in these cases unless a BSL 3+ facility
is available to receive and culture specimens.
3

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 4
5. A Design Control Activities Summary was present which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
Risk analysis was performed to identify risks, their possible causes, and appropriate control
mechanisms. Risk management of the FilmArray Torch Software and Firmware followed processes
that are compliant with ISO 14971:2012, Medical devices – application of risk management to
medical devices. After mitigation, all hazards associated with the FilmArray Torch Software have a
Risk score of “No Risk”.
To validate the modified device, an intra-laboratory precision study was conducted. Results of
precision testing on the FilmArray Torch systems indicate that all analytes in the device intended
use (at 1x LoD based on FilmArray 2.0) were detected in at least 95% of the samples tested.
In addition to analyte detection, the precision of FilmArray RP Tm (melting temperature) results on
FilmArray Torch was evaluated. The standard deviation in Tm for each assay on each of the 3
FilmArray Torch systems and overall (all systems/Modules) met the acceptance criteria of 0.5˚C or
less.
Method comparison studies with different types of samples were conducted for the modified device
(FilmArray Torch) and its predicate device (FilmArray 2.0). These included a synthetic template
method comparison study, a negative sample method comparison study, and a representative
organism method comparison study. For all studies, the positive agreement was ≥95% and the
negative agreement was 100%.
c) Declaration of Conformity to Design Controls
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the Biofire Diagnostics, LLC
manufacturing facility. It was signed by the Vice President, Regulated Products and Clinical
Affairs, and the Director of Quality Assurance. The statements indicate that:
i. “To the best of my knowledge, the verification activities for the modification were
performed by the designated individual(s) and the results demonstrated that the
predetermined acceptance criteria were met.”
ii. “The manufacturing facility, Biofire Diagnostics, LLC, is in conformance with the design
control requirements as specified in 21 CFR 820. 3 0 and the records are available for
review.”
6. Conclusion
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
4