
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number: K161964
B. Purpose for Submission: To support the addition of the pediatric population testing to the
Intended Use/Indications for Use for the ADVIA Centaur® HAV lgM assay cleared under
K081716 (originally approved under PMA P040018).
C. Measurand: Hepatitis A virus (HAV) IgM antibodies
D. Type of Test: Enzyme immunoassay
E. Applicant: Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics
F. Proprietary and Established Names: ADVIA® Centaur HAV lgM Assay
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21 CFR §866.3310; Hepatitis A virus (HAV) serological assays
2. Classification: Class II
3. Product code: LOL; Hepatitis A test (antibody and IgM antibody)
4. Panel: Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
ADVIA Centaur, ADVIA Centaur XP, and ADVIA Centaur XPT systems:
The ADVIA Centaur® HAV IgM (aHAVM) assay is an in vitro diagnostic immunoassay
for the qualitative determination of IgM response to the hepatitis A virus (HAV) in
human pediatric (2 through 21 years) and adult serum or plasma (potassium EDTA,
lithium or sodium heparinized) using the ADVIA Centaur, ADVIA Centaur XP, and
ADVIA Centaur XPT systems. This assay is intended for use as an aid in the diagnosis of
acute or recent infection (usually 6 months or less) with hepatitis A virus.
Assay performance characteristics have not been established for immunocompromised or
immunosuppressed patients, cord blood, or patients less than 2 years of age.
ADVIA Centaur CP system:
The ADVIA Centaur® HAV IgM (aHAVM) assay is an in vitro diagnostic immunoassay
for the qualitative determination of IgM response to the hepatitis A virus (HAV) in
human pediatric (2 through 21 years) and adult serum or plasma (potassium EDTA,
1

--- Page 2 ---
lithium or sodium heparinized) using the ADVIA Centaur CP system. This assay is
intended for use as an aid in the diagnosis of acute or recent infection (usually 6 months
or less) with hepatitis A virus.
Assay performance characteristics have not been established for immunocompromised or
immunosuppressed patients, cord blood, or patients less than 2 years of age.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only.
4. Special instrument requirements:
ADVIA Centaur, ADVIA Centaur XP, ADVIA Centaur XPT, or
ADVIA Centaur CP system.
I. Device Description:
The ADVIA Centaur HAV IgM assay is an IgM capture immunoassay. In the first step, the
sample is diluted using Multi-Diluent 2. After sample dilution, biotinylated anti-human IgM
monoclonal antibody is added to the cuvette binding lgM from the diluted patient sample.
The lgM complex is then captured by the addition of streptavidin coated magnetic latex
particles (MLP). The lgM-MLP is washed and resuspended. The anti-HAV lgM captured on
the Solid Phase is then detected by the sequential addition of HAV antigen and acridinium
ester-labeled mouse anti-HAV antibody.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
VITROS® Anti-HAV Immunodiagnostic Products IgM Reagent Pack
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K060770
2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities:
Predicate Device:
Modified Device:
Item VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products
ADVIA Centaur HAV IgM Assay
Anti-HAV IgM Reagent
Intended Use For the qualitative determination of For the qualitative determination of
IgM response to hepatitis A virus (anti- IgM antibodies to hepatitis A virus
HAV IgM) in human, pediatric (2 (anti-HAV IgM) in human adult and
through 21 years) and adult samples pediatric samples
Indications for This assay is intended for use as an aid The assay is indicated for testing
Use in the diagnosis of acute or recent specimens from individuals who
infection (usually 6 months or less) have signs and symptoms consistent
with hepatitis A virus. with acute hepatitis.
Assay results, in conjunction with
other clinical information, may be
used for the laboratory diagnosis of
individuals with acute or recent
hepatitis A.
Sample type Serum and Plasma Same
Measurement Qualitative Same
Assay Principle IgM capture immunoassay Same
Technology Chemiluminescence Same
Differences:
Predicate Device:
Modified Device:
Item VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products
ADVIA Centaur HAVT Assay
Anti-HAV IgM Reagent
Standardization / The cutoff for the ADVIA Centaur Traceable to an in-house reference
Traceability HAV IgM assay was verified based on calibrator which has been value
results of Receiver-Operator assigned to optimize the clinical
characteristics (ROC) Curve and sensitivity and specificity
clinical agreement generated from the performance.
clinical studies.
Detection Mouse monoclonal anti-HAV antibody Mouse monoclonal anti-HAV
Antibody Fab fragments labeled with acridinium antibody labeled with horseradish
ester peroxidase (HRP)
Capture Antibody Mouse monoclonal to anti-human Mouse monoclonal to anti-human
IgM antibody labeled with biotin IgM antibody labeled with biotin
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable): N/A
L. Test Principle: Enzyme Immunoassay
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
		
		Predicate Device:
	Modified Device:	
Item		VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products
	ADVIA Centaur HAV IgM Assay	
		Anti-HAV IgM Reagent
		
		
Intended Use	For the qualitative determination of
IgM response to hepatitis A virus (anti-
HAV IgM) in human, pediatric (2
through 21 years) and adult samples	For the qualitative determination of
IgM antibodies to hepatitis A virus
(anti-HAV IgM) in human adult and
pediatric samples
Indications for
Use	This assay is intended for use as an aid
in the diagnosis of acute or recent
infection (usually 6 months or less)
with hepatitis A virus.	The assay is indicated for testing
specimens from individuals who
have signs and symptoms consistent
with acute hepatitis.
Assay results, in conjunction with
other clinical information, may be
used for the laboratory diagnosis of
individuals with acute or recent
hepatitis A.
Sample type	Serum and Plasma	Same
Measurement	Qualitative	Same
Assay Principle	IgM capture immunoassay	Same
Technology	Chemiluminescence	Same

[Table 2 on page 3]
		Predicate Device:
	Modified Device:	
Item		VITROS Immunodiagnostic Products
	ADVIA Centaur HAVT Assay	
		Anti-HAV IgM Reagent
		
Standardization /
Traceability	The cutoff for the ADVIA Centaur
HAV IgM assay was verified based on
results of Receiver-Operator
characteristics (ROC) Curve and
clinical agreement generated from the
clinical studies.	Traceable to an in-house reference
calibrator which has been value
assigned to optimize the clinical
sensitivity and specificity
performance.
Detection
Antibody	Mouse monoclonal anti-HAV antibody
Fab fragments labeled with acridinium
ester	Mouse monoclonal anti-HAV
antibody labeled with horseradish
peroxidase (HRP)
		
Capture Antibody	Mouse monoclonal to anti-human
IgM antibody labeled with biotin	Mouse monoclonal to anti-human
IgM antibody labeled with biotin

--- Page 4 ---
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
NOTE: Performance Characteristics of the ADVIA Centaur HAV IgM assay other than the
pediatric population studies have been established under parent documents, P040018 and
K081716.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range: N/A
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods): N/A
d. Detection limit: N/A
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity: See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
Interferences: See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
f. Assay cut-off:
See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Pediatric Patient Testing: The following comparison study was performed to
demonstrate that the pediatric population can be used in the ADVIA Centaur HAV
IgM assay. One hundred and thirty-two (132) pediatric serum samples (male and
female, age range from 2 to 21 years), from suspected positive or high risk population
were evaluated with the ADVIA Centaur HAV IgM assay and another commercially
available assay. The percent agreement results are shown in the following table:
4

--- Page 5 ---
Comparative anti-HAV IgM Assay
ADVIA Centaur
Anti-HAV IGM Assay Borderline
Reactive Non- reactive Total
Reactive
Reactive 30 0 0 30
Equivocal 0 1 1 2
Non- reactive
1 2* 97 100
Total 31 3 98 132
* Included in the total number of samples (n=33) in the calculation of % Positive Agreement
% Positive Agreement = 90.9% (30/33)
95% Confidence Interval = 75.67% to 98.08%
% Negative Agreement = 98.98% (97/98)
95% Confidence Interval = 94.45% to 99.97%
Prospective Study: See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
b. Matrix comparison: N/A
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity: N/A
b. Clinical specificity: N/A
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable): N/A
4. Clinical cut-off: N/A
5. Expected values/Reference range:
See the Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data for P040018.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
5