
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k162530
B. Purpose for Submission:
Addition of the following 13 assayed analytes to a previously cleared quality control material
(k132091): Acetaminophen, ACTH, Amikacin, Calcitonin, Human Growth Hormone,
Lithium, Salicylate, Thyroglobulin, Tobramycin, Free Estriol, EPO, NT Pro-BNP and
Troponin T.
C. Measurand:
Quality control materials for Acetaminophen, ACTH, Amikacin, Calcitonin, Human Growth
Hormone, Lithium, Salicylate, Thyroglobulin, Tobramycin, Estriol Free, EPO, NT Pro BNP,
Troponin T, Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP), Anti-thyroglobulin, Anti-thyroperoxidase, Human
Chorionic Gonadotropin (BhCG), BNP (1-32), CA 125, CA 15-3, CA 19-9, Carbamazepine,
Carcinogenic Embryonic Antigen (CEA), CK-MB, Cortisol, C-Peptide, DHEA-Sulfate,
Digoxin, Estradiol, Ferritin, Folate, Prostate Specific Antigen Free, Follicle Stimulating
Hormone (FSH), Triiodothyronine Free (FT3), Thyroxine Free (FT4), Gentamicin,
Homocysteine, Immunoglobulin E, Insulin, Luteinizing Hormone, Myoglobin, Parathyroid
Hormone (PTH) (1-84), Phenobarbital, Phenytoin, Progesterone, Prolactin, Prostate Specific
Antigen Total, Sex Hormone Binding Globulin, T-Uptake, Testosterone, Theophylline,
Troponin I, Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), Triiodothyronine Total (TT3), Thyroxine
Total (TT4), Valproic Acid, Vancomycin, Vitamin B12, 25-OH Vitamin D.
D. Type of Test:
Not applicable.
E. Applicant:
Techno-Path Manufacturing Ltd.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Multichem IA Plus
1

--- Page 2 ---
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1660
2. Classification:
Class I, reserved
3. Product code:
JJY
4. Panel:
Clinical chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See “Indication(s) for use” below
2. Indication(s) for use:
For In Vitro Diagnostic use only. Multichem IA Plus is intended for use as a quality
control serum to monitor the precision of laboratory testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
The package insert lists the following instruments for which the quality control material
is intended: Abbott Architect platforms, Beckman Access II platforms, Roche Cobas
platforms and Beckman DXI platforms.
I. Device Description:
The Multichem IA Plus controls are prepared from human serum with added constituents of
human and animal origin, chemicals, therapeutic drugs, stabilizers and preservatives. The
control is available in liquid form.
Three levels of control are available to allow performance monitoring within the clinical
range.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Each donor unit used in the preparation of the control material was tested by United States
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved methods and found to be negative for
antibodies to HIV and HCV, and non-reactive for HBsAg.
The following kit configurations are available:
Multichem IA Plus
Model IA310A (Trilevel) with Level 1, 2 & 3 control; 12 vials with 5 mL contents
Model 05P56-10 (Trilevel) with Level 1, 2 & 3 control; 12 vials with 5 mL contents
Model IA311A with Level 1 control; 12 vials with 5 mL contents
Model IA312A with Level 2 control; 12 vials with 5 mL contents
Model IA313A with Level 3 control; 12 vials with 5 mL contents
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Multichem IA Plus
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k132091
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Characteristics Multichem IA Plus Assayed Multichem IA Plus Assayed
Control Control
(k162530, Candidate Device) (k132091, Predicate Device)
Intended Use Multichem IA Plus is intended for Same
use as a quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory
testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.
Form Liquid, Frozen Same
Matrix Processed Human Serum Same
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Characteristics		Multichem IA Plus Assayed			Multichem IA Plus Assayed	
		Control			Control	
		(k162530, Candidate Device)			(k132091, Predicate Device)	
Intended Use	Multichem IA Plus is intended for
use as a quality control serum to
monitor the precision of laboratory
testing procedures for the analytes
listed in the package insert.			Same		
Form	Liquid, Frozen			Same		
Matrix	Processed Human Serum			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Characteristics Multichem IA Plus Assayed Multichem IA Plus Assayed
Control Control
(k162530, Candidate Device) (k132091, Predicate Device)
Assayed Same plus 13 analytes: Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP), Anti-
Analytes Acetaminophen, ACTH, thyroglobulin, Anti-
Amikacin, Calcitonin, Human thyroperoxidase, Human
Growth Hormone, Lithium, Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG),
Salicylate, Thyroglobulin, BNP (1-32), CA 125, CA 15-3,
Tobramycin, Free Estriol, EPO, CA 19-9, Carbamazepine,
NT Pro-BNP and Troponin T Carcinogenic Embryonic
Antigen (CEA), CK-MB,
Cortisol, C-Peptide, DHEA-
Sulfate, Digoxin, Estradiol,
Ferritin, Folate, Prostate Specific
Antigen Free, Follicle
Stimulating Hormone (FSH),
Triiodothyronine Free (FT3),
Thyroxine Free (FT4),
Gentamicin, Homocysteine,
Immunoglobulin E, Insulin,
Luteinizing Hormone,
Myoglobin, Parathyroid
Hormone (PTH) (1-84),
Phenobarbital, Phenytoin,
Progesterone, Prolactin, Prostate
Specific Antigen Total, Sex
Hormone Binding Globulin, T-
Uptake, Testosterone,
Theophylline, Troponin I,
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone
(TSH), Triiodothyronine Total
(TT3), Thyroxine Total (TT4),
Valproic Acid, Vancomycin,
Vitamin B12, 25-OH Vitamin D.
Storage Shelf 36 Months @ -20 C to -80°C 30 Months @ -20°C to -80°C
°
Life (Unopened)
Storage Open 10 days at 2 to 8°C, with the 10 days at 2 to 8°C, with the
Vial following exceptions: following exceptions:
BNP = 1 hour, C-Peptide = 7 BNP = 1 hour, C-Peptide = 7
days, Folate = 2 days, days, Folate = 2 days,
Homocysteine = 7 days, PTH Homocysteine = 7 days, PTH
Intact = 4 days, Troponin I = 4 Intact = 4 days, Troponin I = 4
days, 25OH Vitamin D = 4 days, days, and 25OH Vitamin D = 4
ACTH = 8 hours, Calcitonin and days at 2 to 8°C.
Troponin T = 7 days at 2 to 8°C.
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences						
Characteristics		Multichem IA Plus Assayed			Multichem IA Plus Assayed	
		Control			Control	
		(k162530, Candidate Device)			(k132091, Predicate Device)	
Assayed
Analytes	Same plus 13 analytes:
Acetaminophen, ACTH,
Amikacin, Calcitonin, Human
Growth Hormone, Lithium,
Salicylate, Thyroglobulin,
Tobramycin, Free Estriol, EPO,
NT Pro-BNP and Troponin T			Alpha Fetoprotein (AFP), Anti-
thyroglobulin, Anti-
thyroperoxidase, Human
Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG),
BNP (1-32), CA 125, CA 15-3,
CA 19-9, Carbamazepine,
Carcinogenic Embryonic
Antigen (CEA), CK-MB,
Cortisol, C-Peptide, DHEA-
Sulfate, Digoxin, Estradiol,
Ferritin, Folate, Prostate Specific
Antigen Free, Follicle
Stimulating Hormone (FSH),
Triiodothyronine Free (FT3),
Thyroxine Free (FT4),
Gentamicin, Homocysteine,
Immunoglobulin E, Insulin,
Luteinizing Hormone,
Myoglobin, Parathyroid
Hormone (PTH) (1-84),
Phenobarbital, Phenytoin,
Progesterone, Prolactin, Prostate
Specific Antigen Total, Sex
Hormone Binding Globulin, T-
Uptake, Testosterone,
Theophylline, Troponin I,
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone
(TSH), Triiodothyronine Total
(TT3), Thyroxine Total (TT4),
Valproic Acid, Vancomycin,
Vitamin B12, 25-OH Vitamin D.		
Storage Shelf
Life (Unopened)	36 Months @ -20 C to -80°C
°			30 Months @ -20°C to -80°C		
Storage Open
Vial	10 days at 2 to 8°C, with the
following exceptions:
BNP = 1 hour, C-Peptide = 7
days, Folate = 2 days,
Homocysteine = 7 days, PTH
Intact = 4 days, Troponin I = 4
days, 25OH Vitamin D = 4 days,
ACTH = 8 hours, Calcitonin and
Troponin T = 7 days at 2 to 8°C.			10 days at 2 to 8°C, with the
following exceptions:
BNP = 1 hour, C-Peptide = 7
days, Folate = 2 days,
Homocysteine = 7 days, PTH
Intact = 4 days, Troponin I = 4
days, and 25OH Vitamin D = 4
days at 2 to 8°C.		

--- Page 5 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP25-A, Evaluation of Stability of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents, 2009.
L. Test Principle:
Not applicable.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability -
The base matrix of the three control levels is processed human serum. The
traceability / source of materials used to prepare the three control levels for the 13
new assayed analytes are as listed in the table below:
Assigned Analytes Source of Material
Acetaminophen Chemical - Therapeutic Drug
ACTH Endogenous and spiked with purified human ACTH
Amikacin Chemical - Therapeutic Drug
Calcitonin Endogenous and spiked with purified human Calcitonin
EPO Endogenous and spiked with purified human EPO
hGH Endogenous and spiked with purified human or
recombinant Growth Hormone
Free Estriol Endogenous and spiked with chemical
Lithium Chemical - Therapeutic Drug
NT Pro-BNP Endogenous and spiked with purified recombinant
NT Pro-BNP
Salicylate Chemical - Therapeutic Drug
Thyroglobulin Endogenous and spiked with purified human
Thyroglobulin
Tobramycin Chemical - Therapeutic Drug
Troponin T Endogenous and spiked with purified human Troponin T
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Assigned Analytes			Source of Material	
Acetaminophen			Chemical - Therapeutic Drug		
ACTH			Endogenous and spiked with purified human ACTH		
Amikacin			Chemical - Therapeutic Drug		
Calcitonin			Endogenous and spiked with purified human Calcitonin		
EPO			Endogenous and spiked with purified human EPO		
hGH			Endogenous and spiked with purified human or
recombinant Growth Hormone		
Free Estriol			Endogenous and spiked with chemical		
Lithium			Chemical - Therapeutic Drug		
NT Pro-BNP			Endogenous and spiked with purified recombinant
NT Pro-BNP		
Salicylate			Chemical - Therapeutic Drug		
Thyroglobulin			Endogenous and spiked with purified human
Thyroglobulin		
Tobramycin			Chemical - Therapeutic Drug		
Troponin T			Endogenous and spiked with purified human Troponin T		

--- Page 6 ---
Stability -
Shelf-Life (closed vial) and in-use (open vial) stability testing protocols and
acceptance criteria were described and found to be adequate.
Real-time stability testing supports a shelf-life stability claim of 36 months when
stored frozen at -20 ºC to -80ºC for the Multichem IA Plus three level controls.
Real-Time stability testing supports open vial stability claims as listed below:
· Acetaminophen, Amikacin, EPO, hGH, Free Estriol, Lithium, NT Pro-BNP,
Salicylate, Thyroglobulin and Tobramycin of 10 days at 2 to 8°C
· ACTH of 8 hours at 2 to 8°C
· Calcitonin and Troponin T of 7 days at 2 to 8°C
Value Assignment -
The value assignment for all analytes was performed on analyte specific
assay/analyzer systems using the proposed new value assignment protocol. Fifteen
replicates of each analyte were tested over a minimum of three runs with a minimum
of three replicates per run using and run over multiple days. The mean from the 15
data points was used as the target concentration. The assignment of value assignment
ranges was established based on the 3SD value for each level of the analyte control.
The target mean and range for each analyte level along with their respective
acceptance criteria were provided for review and found acceptable. Representative
values for target mean and range for each analyte for a lot are provided in tabular
form in the value assignment sheets.
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable.
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
6

--- Page 7 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Expected values are provided in the value assignment sheets provided with the package
insert.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
7