
--- Page 1 ---
k163652
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
k163652
B. Purpose for Submission:
Clearance of a new instrument
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
GenMark Diagnostics, Inc.
ePlex Instrument
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing
E. System Descriptions:
1. DeviceDescription:
The ePlex Instrument is a clinical multiplex test system that uses single-use assay
cartridges that incorporate digital microfluidics and GenMark’s eSensor detection
technology to automate all aspects of nucleic acid testing. The instrument system is used
with specific IVD assays to measure multiple analytes. The ePlex Instrument is for in
vitro diagnostic use by trained laboratory professionals in a controlled laboratory
environment and is not intended for patient contact.
The ePlex Instrument includes the following components:
· Base: A touchscreen graphical user interface (GUI) powered by a PC with a Windows
Operating System 7. The base communicates with the bays to transfer data. The
instrument software installed on the ePlex base processes the raw data generated by
the individual bays and determines the test result.
· Tower: A chassis housing six bays. ePlex is scalable from one to four towers
connected to either side of the base.
· Bay: 6 bays are housed in each tower. Each bay will accept cartridges independent of
the testing status of the other bays allowing for random access testing. Each bay has
an Ethernet port for communication with the base unit to receive user inputs and
deliver test data to the ePlex Instrument software.
The touchscreen graphical user interface (GUI) is flanked on either side by a tower with
six bays containing a slot for the cartridge and an LED to indicate bay status. The
instrument is designed to be scalable with configurations to accommodate a single tower
with 6 bays or up to four towers with 24 bays.
1

--- Page 2 ---
k163652
2. Principles of Operation:
Assays developed for use on this system are based on competitive nucleic acid
hybridization using a sandwich assay format, wherein a single-stranded target binds
concurrently to a sequence-specific solution-phase signal probe and a solid-phase
electrode-bound capture probe. The test employs nucleic acid extraction, target
amplification via polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or reverse transcription PCR (RT-
PCR) and hybridization of target DNA. In the process, the double-stranded PCR
amplicons are digested with exonuclease to generate single-stranded DNA suitable for
hybridization.
Nucleic acid extraction from biological samples occurs within the cartridge via cell lysis,
nucleic acid capture onto magnetic beads, and release for amplification. The nucleic acid
extraction is processed through microfluidic liquid handling. Once the nucleic acid
targets are captured and inhibitors are washed away, the magnetic particles are delivered
to the electrowetting environment on the printed circuit board (PCB) and the targets are
eluted from the particles and amplified.
During hybridization, the single-stranded target DNA binds to a complementary, single-
stranded capture probe immobilized on the working gold electrode surface. Single-
stranded signal probes (labeled with electrochemically active ferrocenes) bind to specific
target sequence / region adjacent to the capture probe. Simultaneous hybridization of
target to signal probes and capture probe is detected by alternating current voltammetry
(ACV). Each working electrode on the array contains specific capture probes, and
sequential analysis of each electrode allows detection of multiple analyte targets.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ___X____or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ___X____
4. Specimen Identification:
Barcode scanner, manual entry, or LIS pending test orders download.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Samples are manually prepared according to assay manufacturer’s instructions and are
then manually introduced into individual reagent cartridges.
2

--- Page 3 ---
k163652
6. Calibration:
User calibration not required. Each reagent cartridge contains an internal control.
7. Quality Control:
Each RP Panel cartridge includes internal controls that monitor performance of each step
of the testing process. A DNA control verifies extraction, amplification and detection of
DNA targets, and RNA controls verify amplification and detection of RNA targets.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes___X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.2570
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
NSU
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication for Use:
The ePlex Instrument is an automated in vitro diagnostic (IVD) device designed to
perform multiplexed nucleic acid tests for the simultaneous detection and identification
of nucleic acid targets by processing single-use cartridges developed and manufactured
by GenMark Diagnostics, Inc.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Not Applicable
3

--- Page 4 ---
k163652
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
FilmArray 2.0 System, BioFire Diagnostics, LLC
K143178
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Characteristic Proposed Device Predicate Device
Product Name ePlex Instrument FilmArray 2.0
Manufacturer GenMark Diagnostics BioFire Diagnostics
862.2570 862.2570
Regulation Instrumentation for clinical multiplex Instrumentation for clinical multiplex
test systems test systems
NSU: Instrumentation for Clinical NSU: Instrumentation for Clinical
Product Code
Multiplex Test Systems Multiplex Test Systems
Device Class Class II Class II
The ePlex instrument is an automated The FilmArray 2.0 is an automated in
Intended Use in vitro diagnostic (IVD) device vitro diagnostic (IVD) device designed
designed to perform multiplexed for use with FilmArray panels. The
nucleic acid tests for the simultaneous FilmArray 2.0 is intended for use in
detection and identification of nucleic combination with assay specific reagent
acid targets by processing single-use pouches to detect multiple nucleic acid
cartridges developed and targets contained in clinical specimens.
manufactured by GenMark The FilmArray 2.0 instrument interacts
Diagnostics, Inc. with the reagent pouch to both purify
nucleic acids and amplify targeted
nucleic acid sequences using nested
multiplex PCR in a closed system. The
resulting PCR products are evaluated
using DNA melting analysis. The
software automatically determines the
results and provides a test report.
The FilmArray 2.0 is composed of
one to eight instruments connected
to a computer running FilmArray 2.0
software, which controls the
function of each instrument and
collects, analyzes, and stores data
generated by each instrument.
For use with FDA cleared GenMark For use with FDA cleared FilmArray
Assays
developed panels including Respiratory panels including Respiratory Panel (RP),
Panel (RP). Blood Culture Identification (BCID)
Panel, and Gastrointestinal (GI) Panel
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities		
		
Characteristic	Proposed Device	Predicate Device
		
Product Name	ePlex Instrument	FilmArray 2.0
Manufacturer	GenMark Diagnostics	BioFire Diagnostics
Regulation	862.2570
Instrumentation for clinical multiplex
test systems	862.2570
Instrumentation for clinical multiplex
test systems
Product Code	NSU: Instrumentation for Clinical
Multiplex Test Systems	NSU: Instrumentation for Clinical
Multiplex Test Systems
Device Class	Class II	Class II
Intended Use	The ePlex instrument is an automated
in vitro diagnostic (IVD) device
designed to perform multiplexed
nucleic acid tests for the simultaneous
detection and identification of nucleic
acid targets by processing single-use
cartridges developed and
manufactured by GenMark
Diagnostics, Inc.	The FilmArray 2.0 is an automated in
vitro diagnostic (IVD) device designed
for use with FilmArray panels. The
FilmArray 2.0 is intended for use in
combination with assay specific reagent
pouches to detect multiple nucleic acid
targets contained in clinical specimens.
The FilmArray 2.0 instrument interacts
with the reagent pouch to both purify
nucleic acids and amplify targeted
nucleic acid sequences using nested
multiplex PCR in a closed system. The
resulting PCR products are evaluated
using DNA melting analysis. The
software automatically determines the
results and provides a test report.
The FilmArray 2.0 is composed of
one to eight instruments connected
to a computer running FilmArray 2.0
software, which controls the
function of each instrument and
collects, analyzes, and stores data
generated by each instrument.
Assays	For use with FDA cleared GenMark
developed panels including Respiratory
Panel (RP).	For use with FDA cleared FilmArray
panels including Respiratory Panel (RP),
Blood Culture Identification (BCID)
Panel, and Gastrointestinal (GI) Panel

--- Page 5 ---
k163652
Similarities
Characteristic Proposed Device Predicate Device
Cell disruption, nucleic acid extraction,
Cell disruption, nucleic acid extraction,
Protocol PCR1 thermocycling, PCR2
RT-PCR, single stranding and signal
Processing Steps thermocycling, DNA melt and signal
detection
detection.
Approximately 90 minutes (depends on Approximately 1 hour
Time to result ePlex assay cartridge)
Multiplex nucleic acid amplification Nested multiplex nucleic acid
Technological (including reverse transcription as amplification (including reverse
Principles appropriate) utilizing proprietary transcription as appropriate) followed by
electrowetting technology, high-resolution melting analysis to
followed by detection of analyte targets confirm the identity of the amplified
utilizing proprietary eSensor product.
technology.
Sample Minimal sample processing and hands- Minimal sample processing and hands-on
Preparation on time. time
Method
Test Interpretation Automated test interpretation and Automated test interpretation and report
and Results report generation. User cannot access generation. User cannot access raw data.
Reporting raw data. Report can be printed, Report can be printed.
exported or sent to an LIS.
User Interface Touch-screen base unit with integrated FilmArray unit(s) plugged into a
PC on a Windows operating system. standalone PC operated on a Windows
operating system.
User Complexity Moderate Moderate
Differences
Characteristic Device Predicate
Detection Cyclic voltammetry on custom PCB Complimentary metal-oxide
Procedure semiconductor (CMOS) camera
Hard-coated filters.
A base unit containing an integrated Up to eight FilmArray 2.0 instruments to
Device PC; with onscreen key board and one computer with mouse, barcode
Configuration touch screen operation, and scanner and pouch loading station.
detachable barcode scanner and Single-sample test capacity per
magnetic arm rest. instrument with random-access multi-
System is configurable with 1 to 4 sample test capacity per system.
towers; each tower contains 6 bays. Printer Provided with System.
Towers are attached to the left and Interlocking two-instrument racks
right sides of the base, a maximum of available to stack instruments and reduce
2 towers may be attached to each system footprint. (Optional)
side. Instrument held at 0° angle when no rack
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities		
		
Characteristic	Proposed Device	Predicate Device
		
Protocol
Processing Steps	Cell disruption, nucleic acid extraction,
RT-PCR, single stranding and signal
detection	Cell disruption, nucleic acid extraction,
PCR1 thermocycling, PCR2
thermocycling, DNA melt and signal
detection.
Time to result	Approximately 90 minutes (depends on
ePlex assay cartridge)	Approximately 1 hour
Technological
Principles	Multiplex nucleic acid amplification
(including reverse transcription as
appropriate) utilizing proprietary
electrowetting technology,
followed by detection of analyte targets
utilizing proprietary eSensor
technology.	Nested multiplex nucleic acid
amplification (including reverse
transcription as appropriate) followed by
high-resolution melting analysis to
confirm the identity of the amplified
product.
Sample
Preparation
Method	Minimal sample processing and hands-
on time.	Minimal sample processing and hands-on
time
Test Interpretation
and Results
Reporting	Automated test interpretation and
report generation. User cannot access
raw data. Report can be printed,
exported or sent to an LIS.	Automated test interpretation and report
generation. User cannot access raw data.
Report can be printed.
User Interface	Touch-screen base unit with integrated
PC on a Windows operating system.	FilmArray unit(s) plugged into a
standalone PC operated on a Windows
operating system.
User Complexity	Moderate	Moderate

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences								
	Characteristic			Device			Predicate	
Detection
Procedure			Cyclic voltammetry on custom PCB			Complimentary metal-oxide
semiconductor (CMOS) camera
Hard-coated filters.		
Device
Configuration			A base unit containing an integrated
PC; with onscreen key board and
touch screen operation, and
detachable barcode scanner and
magnetic arm rest.
System is configurable with 1 to 4
towers; each tower contains 6 bays.
Towers are attached to the left and
right sides of the base, a maximum of
2 towers may be attached to each
side.			Up to eight FilmArray 2.0 instruments to
one computer with mouse, barcode
scanner and pouch loading station.
Single-sample test capacity per
instrument with random-access multi-
sample test capacity per system.
Printer Provided with System.
Interlocking two-instrument racks
available to stack instruments and reduce
system footprint. (Optional)
Instrument held at 0° angle when no rack		

--- Page 6 ---
k163652
Differences
Characteristic Device Predicate
Printer provided with System and is used. Instrument held at 15° angle on
optional Universal Power Supply the rack.
(UPS) offered.
Each bay has single-sample test
capacity.
Random-access multi-sample test
capacity per system.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex Test
Systems - Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, March 10, 2005
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
See k163636
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See k163636
c. Linearity:
See k163636
d. Carryover:
See k163636
e. Interfering Substances:
See k163636
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Not Applicable
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
1. The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Differences								
	Characteristic			Device			Predicate	
			Printer provided with System and
optional Universal Power Supply
(UPS) offered.
Each bay has single-sample test
capacity.
Random-access multi-sample test
capacity per system.			is used. Instrument held at 15° angle on
the rack.		