
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Memorandum
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K163274
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device: AggreGuide A-
100 Instrument and AggreGuide A-100 AA assay (K122162).
2. Submitter’s statement indicated that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device
as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which
includes instructions for use and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail, demonstrated that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The changes were for hardware modification, software revision, stability extension and User’s
Manual revision. The detailed information of the changes is stated below.
a. New Laser Diode material
The laser diode manufactured by Sanyo, a key component of the AggreGuide A-100, that
generates the laser light used to analyze the platelet-aggregation-induced light scattering
was replaced with the laser diode manufactured by QSI and the electrical and optical
characteristics of the diodes is summarized in table below. Both Laser diodes demonstrate
similar specifications and the use of the substitute laser diode have been validated with the
AggreGuide A-100 instruments. The validation results meet the production acceptance
criteria. The validation protocol and results summary are included in document of “VAL-
0110-A” and it can be found in DocMan.
Characteristic of Laser Sanyo DL-4140-001S QSI QL7816SA-L
Wavelength, (nm), nominal 785 785
Optical Power (mW), required, 5-20 5-20
maximum 25 30
Temperature Range(⁰C) -10 – 60 ⁰C -10 – 60 ⁰C
Operating Current (mA) < 200 65 45
Light beam format Elliptical Elliptical
b. Quality Control Cartridge
The QC device (QC2) has been modified to use a fixed diffuser instead of a rotating groove.
There are no changes to the principle of how the QC device is used, and there are no
changes to the procedure that the user follows. The changes that have been made to the
quality control device pertain to the material used to produce the scattering signal in the QC2
device and to the form of the QC2 device, relative to the previous QC cartridge. The QC2
device reduces the possibility of false negative QC check results and variability of QC
results. The stability and repeatability verification study was performed on four production
prototype QC2 devices and the results demonstrated that the criteria for stability of time is

[Table 1 on page 1]
Characteristic of Laser	Sanyo DL-4140-001S	QSI QL7816SA-L
Wavelength, (nm), nominal	785	785
Optical Power (mW), required,
maximum	5-20
25	5-20
30
Temperature Range(⁰C)	-10 – 60 ⁰C	-10 – 60 ⁰C
Operating Current (mA) < 200	65	45
Light beam format	Elliptical	Elliptical

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2of 3
passed and the standard deviation for each device sample was less than 10% of the mean.
The criterion for repeatability between devices is also passed and all means are within 0.4 ±
0.05V.The verification protocol and results summary are included in document of “VAL-
0102-A” and can be found in DocMan.
c. Software Changes
The software is revised to accommodate the quality control cartridge modifications (QC2).
The functional detail of the software changes are documented in table below:
Software Function Version 5.00 Version 5.10
Quality control (QC) cartridge Original (QC) New (QC2)
Single software entry-point to quality S ingle software entry-point to
control routine, single point return, quality control routine, single point
QC software invoked: simple pass/fail result. return, simple pass/fail result.
No change.
Power decreased to slightly higher Power kept at nominally full power
than the lasing threshold. settings of the laser, as during actual
Laser power for quality
blood platelet test.
control testing
Different than actual blood
platelet test.
Constant, uses rotation of rotor to Steady state for test of optics.
cause transient signals. Oscillating for test of amplifier.
Laser status during quality
control testing Failure in optics or amplifier Failure of optics alone, or optics
observed. plus amplifier observed.
Each individual QC cartridge is QC2 cartridges use standard-
Quality control cartridge married to an individual performing optical materials to
matched to instrument instrument. allow interchangeability of QC2
cartridges
The new QC2 quality control software allows for testing of the QC2 cartridge at the same
power level as an assay using whole blood, introduction of a steady light level to test
instrument optics and an oscillating light level to test the amplifier.
d. The Test Cartridge shelf-life Extension
The test cartridge shelf life has been extended from 12 months to 19 months, using the
same isochronous stability testing scheme as described in the original 510(k) clearance. The
shelf-life stability study was performed using three lots of the cartridges according to the
CLSI guidelines EP25-A and EN134460:20002. Results of the shelf-life stability testing were
assessed for each lot in terms of measurand drift as stated in CLSI EP25-A, Evaluation of
Stability of In Vitro Diagnostics Reagents, Approved Guideline. The study results
demonstrate the assay cartridge is stable for at least 20 months of shelf life and support
the shelf-life stability extension claim of 18 months. The verification protocol and results
summary are included in document of “VAL-0091-B and can be found in DocMan.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including labeling, intended use/indication for use, methodology, insert sheet, physical
characteristics are located in 510(k) Summary.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.

[Table 1 on page 2]
Software Function	Version 5.00	Version 5.10
Quality control (QC) cartridge	Original (QC)	New (QC2)
QC software invoked:	Single software entry-point to quality
control routine, single point return,
simple pass/fail result.	S ingle software entry-point to
quality control routine, single point
return, simple pass/fail result.
No change.
Laser power for quality
control testing	Power decreased to slightly higher
than the lasing threshold.
Different than actual blood
platelet test.	Power kept at nominally full power
settings of the laser, as during actual
blood platelet test.
Laser status during quality
control testing	Constant, uses rotation of rotor to
cause transient signals.
Failure in optics or amplifier
observed.	Steady state for test of optics.
Oscillating for test of amplifier.
Failure of optics alone, or optics
plus amplifier observed.
Quality control cartridge
matched to instrument	Each individual QC cartridge is
married to an individual
instrument.	QC2 cartridges use standard-
performing optical materials to
allow interchangeability of QC2
cartridges

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3of 3
The risk analysis methods are determined by the identification of known and
hypothesized hazards and estimation of the associated risk based on the operation of
the device for its intended use. The design verification and validation tests that were
performed as a result of this risk analysis assessment are listed in ANL-0015B
(Appendix A). In conclusion, the design changes proposed do not affect system
performance and the impact of the modification does not raise additional safety
concerns.
b) Based on the risk analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
Descriptions of verification and validation activities were provided for the AggreGuide A-
100 hardware and software. The test protocols information and risk management report
were also provided.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in the New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.