
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K170558
B. Purpose for Submission:
New instrument for use with the GenePOC GBS LB Assay cleared under K170557
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
GenePOC Inc., revogene
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Real-time PCR
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The revogene instrument is similar to a low-speed centrifuge to which are attached the
necessary components to perform the different steps of the diagnostic tests. It consists of
a rotor to spin the disposable microfluidic cartridge (referred to as “PIE”), two
temperature controllers, a multichannel optical excitation source, a fluorescence detector,
a tactile user-friendly interface, two barcode readers, integrated firmware, and software to
deliver results to the user. The revogene instrument can detect up to four different
florescence reporters. The instrument fully automates and integrates sample lysis,
dilution, amplification and detection of the target sequence in complex samples using
real-time PCR. User intervention is required for discharging the patient specimen into the
Sample Buffer Tube (SBT), transferring the sample into the PIE and loading/unloading
the PIE into the revogene instrument. The revogene can process from one up to a
maximum of eight samples simultaneously in the same run; however, each run requires
eight PIEs in the instrument. When fewer than eight samples are being processed, MOCK
PIEs are included to bring the total to eight PIEs. Alternatively, assay PIEs loaded with
sample buffer or with an external control can be used to bring the number of PIEs to
eight. On completion of a run, the user removes the processed PIEs from the instrument
and discards them according to normal biological waste management procedures. The
results are displayed on the touchscreen user interface or transmitted to HIS/LIS
(laboratory information system) where result outcomes are reported as Positive, Negative,
Indeterminate, or Unresolved.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
a. Device Features Controlled by Software:
The GenePOC System Software works in conjunction with other software
components, such as the firmware control, power firmware, and assay software that
contribute to the functioning and results reporting by the instrument. The revogene
software is responsible for instrument interaction with the user, assay workflow,
traceability management, data analysis/storage, and communication with a LIS. The
firmware manages the critical processes of the instrument and performs the required
steps to obtain the diagnostic results, such as heating, cooling, centrifugation, and
detection. The GenePOC System Software utilizes assay definition files that contain
assay-specific parameters to run/report sample results. The PIE can be identified by
the revogene software from its barcode.
The final software version reported for K170557 submission was V3.1.5 and 0.3.4 for
the firmware. GenePOC reported that biological validation tests were conducted to
confirm equivalency between the IUO version and IVD (commercial) version of the
revogene.
b. Operational Environment (Off-the-Shelf Software):
The revogene system software uses a number of commercial Off-the-Shelf (OTS)
software components. The sponsor provided detailed documentation for the OTS
used, including validation studies.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes x or No _______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes _______ or No x
4. Specimen Identification:
The instrument has two barcode readers to identify reagents and patient specimens. It
provides traceability of the sample ID to the PIE ID, SBT ID, and assay ID.
2

--- Page 3 ---
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Samples are manually prepared according to the assay manufacturer’s suggestions and
are transferred to an assay specific PIE for analysis. Briefly, the user is required for
pipetting the patient specimen into the SBT, transferring the sample into the PIE, and
loading/unloading the PIEs into the instrument.
6. Calibration:
The system is factory calibrated by the manufacturer, and will undergo performance
qualification testing on-site during annual preventive maintenance. If qualification testing
results determine significant drift, the instrument will be returned to the manufacturer for
re-calibration.
7. Quality Control:
Each PIE contains an internal process control that helps monitor for amplification
inhibition, quality of assay reagents, and sample processing effectiveness. External
controls must be created by the user. See K170557 for details.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes x or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.2570 Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
2. Classification:
Class II (special controls)
3 Product code:
OOI – Real-time nucleic acid amplification
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
3

--- Page 4 ---
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The revogene instrument is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in performing
nucleic acid testing of specific IVD assays in clinical laboratories. The revogene is
capable of automated lysis and dilution of samples originating from various clinical
specimen types. Revogene performs automated amplification and detection of target
nucleic acid sequences by fluorescence-based real-time PCR.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For prescription use only.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
BD MAX System, K111860
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item New Device: Predicate Device:
revogene instrument BD Max System
(K170558) (K111860)
Intended Use The revogene instrument is The BD MAX System is
intended for in vitro intended for in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) use in diagnostic (IVD) use in
performing nucleic acid performing FDA cleared or
testing of specific IVD approved nucleic acid
assays in clinical testing in clinical
laboratories. The revogene laboratories. The BD MAX
is capable of automated System is capable of
lysis and dilution of samples automated extraction and
originating from various purification of nucleic
clinical specimen types. acids from multiple
revogene performs specimen types as well as
automated amplification and the automated
detection of target nucleic amplification and detection
acid sequences by of target nucleic acid
fluorescence-based real- sequences by fluorescence-
time PCR. based PCR.
Sample Preparation Automated cell lysis, DNA Same
Method amplification, and detection
of targets
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities						
Item		New Device:			Predicate Device:	
		revogene instrument			BD Max System	
		(K170558)			(K111860)	
Intended Use	The revogene instrument is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) use in
performing nucleic acid
testing of specific IVD
assays in clinical
laboratories. The revogene
is capable of automated
lysis and dilution of samples
originating from various
clinical specimen types.
revogene performs
automated amplification and
detection of target nucleic
acid sequences by
fluorescence-based real-
time PCR.			The BD MAX System is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) use in
performing FDA cleared or
approved nucleic acid
testing in clinical
laboratories. The BD MAX
System is capable of
automated extraction and
purification of nucleic
acids from multiple
specimen types as well as
the automated
amplification and detection
of target nucleic acid
sequences by fluorescence-
based PCR.		
Sample Preparation
Method	Automated cell lysis, DNA
amplification, and detection
of targets			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item New Device: Predicate Device:
revogene instrument BD Max System
(K170558) (K111860)
Amplification: Real Time Same
Assay Format PCR
Detection: Fluorgenic
Interpretation of Test Automated (Diagnostic Same
Results software)
Differences
Item New Device: Predicate Device:
revogene instrument BD Max System
(K170558) (K111860)
DNA Purification No purification. Lysis of Yes. Bound to magnetic
cells, specimen dilution beads, washed and released
before PCR for subsequent testing
Assay Cartridge · Single Use · Can be used twice
· One sample per PIE · Up to 24 samples per
cartridge
Fluorescence Channels 4 channels 6 channels
Software Software resides on the Software resides on an all-
revogene instrument in-one computer
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
· European Commission. EN 61326-1:2013: Electrical equipment for measurement,
control and laboratory use. EMC requirements. General requirements. February 2013
· Food and Drug Administration. Content of Premarket Submissions for
Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices; Guidance for Industry and
Food and Drug Administration Staff. October 2, 2014.
· Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Guidance
for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices. May 11, 2005.
· Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry: Cybersecurity for
Networked Medical Devices Containing Off-the-Shelf (OTS) Software.
January 14, 2005.
· Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry, FDA Reviewers and
Compliance on Off-The-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices. September 9,
1999.
· International Electrotechnical Commission. IEC 61010-1:2010: Safety
requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control, and laboratory
use - Part 1: General requirements.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities						
Item		New Device:			Predicate Device:	
		revogene instrument			BD Max System	
		(K170558)			(K111860)	
Assay Format	Amplification: Real Time
PCR
Detection: Fluorgenic			Same		
Interpretation of Test
Results	Automated (Diagnostic
software)			Same		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences						
Item		New Device:			Predicate Device:	
		revogene instrument			BD Max System	
		(K170558)			(K111860)	
DNA Purification	No purification. Lysis of
cells, specimen dilution
before PCR			Yes. Bound to magnetic
beads, washed and released
for subsequent testing		
Assay Cartridge	· Single Use
· One sample per PIE			· Can be used twice
· Up to 24 samples per
cartridge		
Fluorescence Channels	4 channels			6 channels		
Software	Software resides on the
revogene instrument			Software resides on an all-
in-one computer		

--- Page 6 ---
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
Performance for the revogene instrument was established in the clearance of the assay,
GenePOC GBS LB Assay (K170557). All analytical and clinical testing for K170557
was performed with the revogene (software versions V2.5.2 and V3.0.12) and the GBS-
specific assay definition file.
a. Accuracy:
See K170557
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
See K170557
c. Linearity:
See K170557
d. Carryover:
See K170557
e. Interfering Substances:
See K170557
2. Clinical Performance:
See K170557
3. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Not Applicable
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
6