
--- Page 1 ---
K510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k170464
B. Purpose for Submission:
This submission seeks changes in labeling for the previously cleared StatStrip Xpress Blood
Glucose Monitoring System (k160156). Accuracy information has been added to the outer
carton labeling, and the presentation format of accuracy information on the test strip package
insert has been modified.
C. Measurand:
Fresh capillary whole blood glucose from the fingertip
D. Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
E. Applicant:
Nova Biomedical Corporation
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1345, Glucose test system
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
NBW, System, Test, Blood Glucose, Over The Counter
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Clinical Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indication(s) for use below.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended to be used for
the quantitative measurement of glucose in fresh capillary whole blood obtained
from the fingertip. It is intended for single-patient home use and should not be
shared. It is intended for self-testing outside the body by people with diabetes
mellitus as an aid to monitor the effectiveness of diabetes control. It is not intended
for the diagnosis of or screening for diabetes, and it is not intended for use with
neonates.
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System comprises the StatStrip Xpress
Blood Glucose Monitor and StatStrip Xpress Glucose Test Strips.
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for use outside the
body (in vitro diagnostic use).
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
• For over-the-counter use
• For single-patient use only.
• Critically ill patients should not be tested with this device.
• Inaccurate results may occur in severely hypotensive individuals or patients in shock.
• Inaccurate low results may occur for individuals experiencing a hyperglycemic-
hyperosmolar state, with or without ketosis.
• Incorrect result may occur in individuals who are dehydrated.
• The system should not be used to test neonates.
• Do not reuse; each Test Strip is for single use only.
• Do not test samples other than fresh capillary whole blood obtained from the fingertip.
• Do not use at altitudes above 15,000 feet (4572 meters) above sea level.
• Do not use when humidity is higher than 90% and lower than 10%, as extremes in
humidity may affect results.
• Do not use when Hematocrit is outside the acceptable Hematocrit range for testing of
20% to 65%.
• Not intended for the diagnosis or screening of diabetes.
• This device is not intended for use in healthcare or assisted-use settings such as
hospitals, physician offices, or long-term care facilities because it has not been
cleared by FDA for use in these settings, including for routine assisted testing or as
2

--- Page 3 ---
part of glycemic control procedures. Use of this device on multiple patients may lead
to transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV),
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), or other bloodblorne pathogens.
4. Special instrument requirements:
StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitor
I. Device Description:
The modified StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System, which includes StatStrip
Xpress Blood Glucose Monitor, StatStrip Xpress Glucose Test Strips, and StatStrip Xpress
Glucose Control Solutions (Levels 1, 2, and 3, sold separately), is identical to the device cleared
in k160156. Only labeling changes have been made to the outer box labeling and test strips
package insert.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
k160156
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
(k160156)
Intended Use/Indications Intended to be used for the Same
for Use quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary
whole blood as an aid to
monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control in people
with diabetes.
Specimen type Fresh capillary whole blood Same
from fingertip
Test Principle Electrochemical biosensor, Same
amperometric
Enzyme Glucose Oxidase Same
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities				
Item	Candidate Device		Predicate Device	
			(k160156)	
Intended Use/Indications
for Use	Intended to be used for the
quantitative measurement of
glucose in fresh capillary
whole blood as an aid to
monitor the effectiveness of
diabetes control in people
with diabetes.	Same		
Specimen type	Fresh capillary whole blood
from fingertip	Same		
Test Principle	Electrochemical biosensor,
amperometric	Same		
Enzyme	Glucose Oxidase	Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Candidate Device Predicate Device
(k160156)
Outer carton labeling System accuracy data and System accuracy data and
interference information interference information
included on the outer carton not included on the outer
labeling carton labeling
Test strip package insert System accuracy data System accuracy data
represented in one table for represented in two tables
all glucose concentrations for glucose concentrations
where data is separated into < 75 mg/dL and > 75
‘within 5%’, ‘within 10%’, mg/dL where data is
‘within 15%’, and ‘within separated into ‘within
20%’ bins. 5mg/dL’, ‘within 10
mg/dL’, and ‘within 15
mg/dL’ bins for glucose
concentrations < 75 mg/dL
and data is separated into
‘within 5%’, ‘within 10%’,
‘within 15%’, and ‘within
20%’ bins for glucose
concentrations > 75 mg/dL.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
No applicable standard was cited.
L. Test Principle:
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System measures glucose levels using
disposable test strips and a handheld meter. The test strip contains a flow channel to draw blood
by capillary action into a biosensor measurement zone. The sensor comprises an enzyme
(Glucose oxidase) that oxidizes glucose present in the blood sample. The sensor also contains an
electron shuttle to re-generate, by oxidation, the active form of the enzyme. The meter applies a
low electrical voltage to the sensor electrodes and measures a change in current caused by the
electrochemical oxidation of the electron shuttle.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
This submission seeks changes in labeling for the previously cleared StatStrip Xpress Blood
Glucose Monitoring System (k160156). The technological characteristics of the modified
device are identical to the technological characteristics of the cleared device (k160156). The
StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System cleared in k160156 uses identical
technology to the StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System (originally cleared in k060345
and modified in k063821, k070960, k132121, and k150461). Performance of the modified
device was established using these previously cleared devices, which are cited (as
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences				
Item	Candidate Device		Predicate Device	
			(k160156)	
Outer carton labeling	System accuracy data and
interference information
included on the outer carton
labeling	System accuracy data and
interference information
not included on the outer
carton labeling		
Test strip package insert	System accuracy data
represented in one table for
all glucose concentrations
where data is separated into
‘within 5%’, ‘within 10%’,
‘within 15%’, and ‘within
20%’ bins.	System accuracy data
represented in two tables
for glucose concentrations
< 75 mg/dL and > 75
mg/dL where data is
separated into ‘within
5mg/dL’, ‘within 10
mg/dL’, and ‘within 15
mg/dL’ bins for glucose
concentrations < 75 mg/dL
and data is separated into
‘within 5%’, ‘within 10%’,
‘within 15%’, and ‘within
20%’ bins for glucose
concentrations > 75 mg/dL.		

--- Page 5 ---
appropriate) in each section.
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Within-run and intermediate precision were established in k060345.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity and reportable range were established in k060345.
The reportable range for the StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System is 20 to
600 mg/dL.
Readings outside of reportable range
Bench studies and software verification studies were provided to demonstrate that if a
glucose measurement is less than 20 mg/dL, the result is flagged and a ‘LO’ indicator is
displayed. If a glucose measurement exceeds 600 mg/dL, the result is flagged and a ‘HI’
indicator is displayed.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Traceability
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Monitoring System is traceable to NIST Standard
SRM917B.
Test Strip Stability
Stability protocols and acceptance criteria for the StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Test
Strips were evaluated in k060345 and found to be acceptable. The claimed closed-vial
stability is 24 months at 34-86°F and 10-90% RH. The claimed open-vial stability is 6
months when stored at the recommended storage temperatures 34-86°F and 10-90% RH
or until the expiration date printed on the label, whichever comes first.
d. Detection limit:
See the linearity study in Section M.1.b. above.
e. Analytical specificity:
Potential interference from some common endogenous and exogenous substances was
established in k132121.
The following information has been added to the outer carton labeling: “Eliminates
interferences from common medicines such as Ibuprofen, Acetaminophen, and
Vitamin C.”
5

--- Page 6 ---
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Method comparison studies were established in k060345.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. Capillary whole blood is the only indicated matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
b. Clinical specificity:
Not applicable.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Accuracy in the hands of the intended users was established in k160156.
Human factors study
Prior to conducting a human factors study to assess intended user understanding of
accuracy labeling, the sponsor assessed ways to display device accuracy information
on the outer box labeling of the device for easy understanding by the intended user.
Twenty design concepts for accuracy labeling were created and assessed internally by
the sponsor as well as through studies with external lay people with diabetes (who did
not participate in the human factors study) to identify the most simple and easy to
understand the information presented. These designs included varied displays such as
text only, pie charts, bar charts, line graphs, and bulls eye graphs with and without
text. Independent diabetes educator professionals were also consulted on the design
and presentation of labeling. The results of this accuracy labeling design assessment
supported the bulls eye graphic presented as part of this effort as easiest for lay users
to understand.
A human factors study was then performed using the accuracy labeling design
selected in the initial accuracy design phase assessment. For the human factors study,
100 male and female intended use subjects across ethnicities (African American,
6

--- Page 7 ---
Caucasian, Native American) and ages (25 to 83 years), and having not received
higher levels of formal education (at least 75% of subjects completed 12 years or
fewer of high school education; no more than 25% of subjects attended college or
higher education) participated in the human factors study. Subjects were included in
the study if they were 18 years of age or older, able to read and write English,
diagnosed with Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes, and met the educational requirements
above. Subjects with a cognitive disorders or other similar conditions were excluded.
As part of the study, each subject completed a mathematics understanding assessment
(MUA) in order to determine a subject’s understanding of basic mathematics
concepts. The MUA established the baseline numeracy skills (e.g., comparisons of
two numbers, understanding of percentages) of the subjects since the human factors
assessment of accuracy labeling comprehension incorporated basic mathematics
concepts (e.g., comparisons of pairs of accuracy values). The average score for 100
subjects for the MUA was 71.3%.
As part of the assessment of accuracy labeling comprehension, each subject
completed assessments for the front panel (1A) and side panel (1B) of the proposed
outer carton labeling (System A) and comparisons of labeling for System A to System
B (2), System C (3), and System D (4) to determine a subject’s overall understanding
of meter accuracy information.
For assessment 1A and 1B, subjects were asked multiple choice questions about the
front and side panels of the proposed labeling (System A). The front and side panels
of the proposed labeling and the results of these assessments are shown below.
7

--- Page 8 ---
System A (proposed labeling)
Front panel: Side panel:
Assessment 1A: Front panel of proposed labeling
Question Average score for 100
subjects (%)
What is the Accuracy [within 10% of lab results] for 92
this meter?
Is the Accuracy of 95 better than an Accuracy of 78? 91
An Accuracy of 95 is equal to which of the 97
following?
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Question	Average score for 100
subjects (%)
What is the Accuracy [within 10% of lab results] for
this meter?	92
Is the Accuracy of 95 better than an Accuracy of 78?	91
An Accuracy of 95 is equal to which of the
following?	97

--- Page 9 ---
Assessment 1B: Side panel of proposed labeling
Question Average score for
100 subjects (%)
Out of 100 tests performed, how many glucose results are 76
within 15% of a glucose test performed in a hospital lab?
True or False: 78 out of 100 tests performed on this meter are 88
within 5% of glucose testing performed in a hospital lab?
Out of 100 tests performed, how many glucose results are 89
within 10% of a glucose test performed within a hospital lab?
According to this table, 95 out of 100 tests are within 10% of 52
lab results. Are the other 5 tests within 10% of lab results?
This labeling information compares the accuracy of this 91
glucose meter to which of the following? (Select one)
For assessments 2, 3, and 4, subjects were asked to compare the proposed labeling for
System A to Systems B, C, or D. The side panels for Systems B, C, and D and the
results of these assessments are shown below. The front panels for Systems B, C, and
D (not shown) display the accuracy values within 10% of lab results (i.e., 81 out of
100 tests for System B, 89 out of 100 tests for System C, and 91 out of 100 tests for
System D).
System B: System C: System D:
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Question	Average score for
100 subjects (%)
Out of 100 tests performed, how many glucose results are
within 15% of a glucose test performed in a hospital lab?	76
True or False: 78 out of 100 tests performed on this meter are
within 5% of glucose testing performed in a hospital lab?	88
Out of 100 tests performed, how many glucose results are
within 10% of a glucose test performed within a hospital lab?	89
According to this table, 95 out of 100 tests are within 10% of
lab results. Are the other 5 tests within 10% of lab results?	52
This labeling information compares the accuracy of this
glucose meter to which of the following? (Select one)	91

--- Page 10 ---
Assessments 2, 3, 4: Comparison of System A to Systems B, C, or D
Average score for 100 subjects (%)
Question (2) System (3) System (4) System
A vs. A vs. A vs.
System B System C System D
Which meter has a [higher or lower] 98 97 98
Accuracy [within 10% of lab results]? If
unsure, please explain.
When comparing the two meters for results 91 96 89
that are within 5% of lab results, which
meter is more accurate? If unsure, please
explain.
When comparing the two meters for results 87 93 89
that are within 10% of lab results, which
meter is [less or more] accurate? If
unsure, please explain.
When comparing the two meters for results 71 84 96
that are within 15% of lab results, which
meter is [less or more] accurate? If
unsure, please explain.
Overall, which meter is [less or more] 89 90 94
accurate? If unsure, please explain.
(Check True or False) For System A, there 91 93 93
are more results that fall within 10% of
Lab Results than results that fall within 5%
of lab results?
(Check True or False) For System [B or C 75 84 83
or D], there are more results that fall
within 5% of Lab Results than results that
fall within 10% of lab results?
The results for assessments 1A, 1B, 2, 3, and 4 shown above support the intended
user understanding of the proposed outer carton accuracy labeling.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
The StatStrip Xpress Blood Glucose Test Strips package insert includes the following:
The normal fasting adult blood Glucose range for a person without diabetes is less than
100 mg/dL. One to two hours after meals, normal blood Glucose levels should be less
than 140 mg/dL.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
	Average score for 100 subjects (%)		
Question	(2) System
A vs.
System B	(3) System
A vs.
System C	(4) System
A vs.
System D
Which meter has a [higher or lower]
Accuracy [within 10% of lab results]? If
unsure, please explain.	98	97	98
When comparing the two meters for results
that are within 5% of lab results, which
meter is more accurate? If unsure, please
explain.	91	96	89
When comparing the two meters for results
that are within 10% of lab results, which
meter is [less or more] accurate? If
unsure, please explain.	87	93	89
When comparing the two meters for results
that are within 15% of lab results, which
meter is [less or more] accurate? If
unsure, please explain.	71	84	96
Overall, which meter is [less or more]
accurate? If unsure, please explain.	89	90	94
(Check True or False) For System A, there
are more results that fall within 10% of
Lab Results than results that fall within 5%
of lab results?	91	93	93
(Check True or False) For System [B or C
or D], there are more results that fall
within 5% of Lab Results than results that
fall within 10% of lab results?	75	84	83

--- Page 11 ---
From: American Diabetes Association, Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes. Diabetes
Care, Vol 40, Supplement 1. January 2017.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Refer to the decision memorandum for k160156 for information related to hematocrit range,
altitude, temperature and humidity, sample volume, infection control, electromagnetic
compatibility, readability evaluation, and customer service.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11