
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K170728
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for the detection of Entamoeba histolytica
antigens in human stool
C. Measurand:
Entamoeba histolytica antigen
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative membrane enzyme immunoassay
E. Applicant:
TechLab Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
E. HISTOL YTICA QUIK CHEK
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Part 866.3220 Entamoeba histolytica Serological Reagents
2. Classification:
II
3. Product code:
KHW
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The TECHLAB E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test is a rapid membrane enzyme
immunoassay for the qualitative detection of adhesin from Entamoeba histolytica in a
single use cassette. It is intended for use with human fecal specimens from patients with
diarrhea or dysentery as an aid in the diagnosis of E. histolytica gastrointestinal infection.
Test results should be considered in conjunction with patient history.
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE
2. Indication(s) for use:
The TECHLAB E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test is a rapid membrane enzyme
immunoassay for the qualitative detection of adhesin from Entamoeba histolytica in a
single use cassette. It is intended for use with human fecal specimens from patients with
diarrhea or dysentery as an aid in the diagnosis of E. histolytica gastrointestinal infection.
Test results should be considered in conjunction with patient history.
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test uses antibodies to adhesin. The device contains
a reaction window with two vertical lines of immobilized antibodies. The test line (“T”)
contains monoclonal antibodies specific for E. histolytica adhesin. The control line (“C”)
contains antibodies to horseradish peroxidase (HRP). The Conjugate consists of
polyclonal antibodies to E. histolytica adhesin coupled to horseradish peroxidase. The
“T” reaction is examined visually for the appearance of a vertical blue line on the “T”
side of the Reaction Window. A blue line indicates a positive test. A positive “C”
reaction, indicated by a vertical blue line on the “C” side of the reaction window,
monitors/confirms that the sample and reagents were added correctly, the reagents were
active at the time of performing the assay, and that the sample migrated properly through
2

--- Page 3 ---
the membrane device. It also confirms the reactivity of the other reagents associated with
the assay.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
E. histolytica II
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K994101
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
K170728 K994101
Indications for use The TECHLAB E. The E. histolytica II is an
HISTOLYTICA QUIK enzyme immunoassay for
CHEK™ test is a rapid the rapid detection of the
membrane enzyme adhesin of E. histolytica in
immunoassay for the human fecal specimens. It
qualitative detection of is indicated for use with
adhesin from Entamoeba fecal specimens from
histolytica in a single use patients with diarrhea or
cassette. It is intended for dysentery to determine the
use with human fecal presence of E. histolytica
specimens from patients gastrointestinal infection.
with diarrhea or dysentery The test can be used for
as an aid in the diagnosis of fecal specimens submitted
E. histolytica for routine clinical testing
gastrointestinal infection. from adults or children.
Test results should be Conventional microscopy
considered in conjunction is not a prerequisite for use
with patient history. of the test. FOR IN VITRO
FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE.
DIAGNOSTIC USE.
Measured analyte E. histolytica specific Same
antigen
Target Population Persons suspected of having Same
E. histolytica infection
Antibody Format Monoclonal/Polyclonal Same
Type of Test Qualitative Same
Sample Matrix Human Fecal Specimen Same
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		K170728			K994101	
Indications for use	The TECHLAB E.
HISTOLYTICA QUIK
CHEK™ test is a rapid
membrane enzyme
immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of
adhesin from Entamoeba
histolytica in a single use
cassette. It is intended for
use with human fecal
specimens from patients
with diarrhea or dysentery
as an aid in the diagnosis of
E. histolytica
gastrointestinal infection.
Test results should be
considered in conjunction
with patient history.
FOR IN VITRO
DIAGNOSTIC USE.			The E. histolytica II is an
enzyme immunoassay for
the rapid detection of the
adhesin of E. histolytica in
human fecal specimens. It
is indicated for use with
fecal specimens from
patients with diarrhea or
dysentery to determine the
presence of E. histolytica
gastrointestinal infection.
The test can be used for
fecal specimens submitted
for routine clinical testing
from adults or children.
Conventional microscopy
is not a prerequisite for use
of the test. FOR IN VITRO
DIAGNOSTIC USE.		
Measured analyte	E. histolytica specific
antigen			Same		
Target Population	Persons suspected of having
E. histolytica infection			Same		
Antibody Format	Monoclonal/Polyclonal			Same		
Type of Test	Qualitative			Same		
Sample Matrix	Human Fecal Specimen			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
K170728 K994101
Controls Positive and negative Same
control included in the kit
Storage Refrigerated (2°C – 8°C) Same
Differences
Item Device Predicate
K170728 K994101
Format Single use membrane 96 well Mircoassay Plate
cassette 25 tests
Specimen type Fecal specimens in Cary- Cannot use Transport
Blair and C&S Transport Media
Media
Time to result 30 minutes 2.5 hours
Controls Internal “C” Control line No internal control
Interpretation of result Visual Spectrophotometric and
Visual
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP07-A2 Interference Testing In Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline - Second
Edition
CLSI EP15-A3 User Verification of Precision And Estimation Of Bias; Approved Guideline
- Third Edition
CLSI EP17-A2 Evaluation Of Detection Capability For Clinical Laboratory Measurement
Procedures; Approved Guideline - Second Edition
L. Test Principle:
Lateral flow immunochromatographic assay.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test was determined using an
eight member masked fecal specimen panel. The panel consisted of 2 negative, 2 high
negative (just below C5), 2 low positive (just above LoD), and 2 moderate positive
(2-3x higher than the C95) specimens. Each fecal specimen was spiked using whole
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		K170728			K994101	
Controls	Positive and negative
control included in the kit			Same		
Storage	Refrigerated (2°C – 8°C)			Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		K170728			K994101	
Format	Single use membrane
cassette 25 tests			96 well Mircoassay Plate		
Specimen type	Fecal specimens in Cary-
Blair and C&S Transport
Media			Cannot use Transport
Media		
Time to result	30 minutes			2.5 hours		
Controls	Internal “C” Control line			No internal control		
Interpretation of result	Visual			Spectrophotometric and
Visual		

--- Page 5 ---
organism to achieve the desired level. The Specimens were tested twice a day over a
12 day period by multiple technicians using two different kit lots. Positive and
negative controls were run with each sample panel of masked specimens. The
positive specimens tested positive 100% of the time and the negative specimens
tested negative 100% of the time. The samples produced the expected result 100% of
the time.
The reproducibility of the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test was determined using
eight masked fecal specimen panel prepared the same way as described for the
precision study. Testing was performed at 2 independent laboratories and on-site at
TECHLAB, Inc. The Specimens were tested twice a day over a five day period by
multiple technicians at each site using two different kit lots. Positive and negative
controls were run with each sample panel of masked specimens. The result from each
laboratory were submitted to TECHLAB Inc. and compared. The results were
consistent among all three locations and exhibited a correlation of 100%. The samples
produced the expected result 100% of the time.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Storage stability study:
The effect of specimen storage on antigen stability was evaluated for both fresh
samples and samples in transport media. For the analysis, a total of 15 fecal
specimens were tested with the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test. The fecal
specimens consisted 3 negative fecal samples, 3 E. histolytica low positive fecal
samples (1-2 times C95 for whole organisms), 3 E. histolytica moderate positive fecal
samples (2-3 times C95 for whole organism), and 3 E. histolytica high positive fecal
samples (4-5 times C95 for whole organism). Both fresh samples and samples stored
in transport media were tested.
For fresh samples, samples were stored between 2°C and 8°C and tested at 24 hour
intervals for 120 hours. At the same time positive and negative controls were tested.
The following transport media were used for the study: Thermo Scientific Protocol
Cary Blair media and Meridian Bioscience Inc., Para-Pak C&S. As recommended in
the Cary Blair package insert, Cary Blair samples were stored between 20°C and
25°C. C&S samples were stored at both refrigerated (2°C to 8°C) and prevailing
room temperature (15°C to 30°C) conditions as indicated in the package insert.
Samples stored in transport media were tested at 24 hour intervals for 120 hours. At
the same time positive and negative controls were tested.
Positive samples remained positive and negative samples remained negative
throughout the study. Storage in transport media did not affect the stability of the
samples. Based on these results, the recommended storage time for fresh samples is
5

--- Page 6 ---
up to 120 hours between 2°C and 8°C, Cary Blair transport media is up to 96 hours
between 20°C and 25°C and C&S transport media is up to 120 hours between 2°C
and 30°C based on the data and the package insert recommendation.
Frozen stability:
The frozen stability tests were determined for raw stool specimens using 15 masked
fecal specimens panel prepared the same way as was described for the storage
stability study. Samples were stores at < -10°C for 28 weeks. Specimens were tested
at 0, 1, 4, 6, 12, 16, 20, 24 and 28 weeks. Positive samples remained positive and
negative samples remained negative throughout the study.
Freeze/Thaw:
Freeze/Thaw stability for Cary Blair and C&S media compared to raw specimens was
demonstrated for one Freeze/Thaw cycle. 60 masked samples were tested, ten true
negative, ten high negative (just belowC5 (whole organisms)), thirty low positives (1-
2 times C95 (whole organisms)), and ten high positives (4-5 x LoD (whole
organisms)) were tested for each transport media and raw stool. Based on the data
submitted, the freeze-thaw cycle neither enhances nor impairs the performance of the
E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test.
d. Detection limit:
The cutoff point (limit of detection, LOD) for the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test
was determined using whole organism spiked into unpreserved (raw stool) and
preserved (Cary Blair and C&S media). Additional testing of spiked purified native
antigen into raw stool was also performed. The cutoff is the concentrations of
organisms or antigen that yields a positive result 95% of the time and a negative
result 5% of the time. The cutoff point was determined as the concentration that
provided the correct result 95% of the time based on testing dilutions of whole
organism and purified antigen in a negative fecal sample matrix, in replicates of 20.
The LoD for the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test was determined to be 320
organisms/mL (equivalent to 15 organisms detected per test) or 0.2 ng/mL of adhesin
in raw stool. For specimens in Cary Blair media, the LoD was established at 275
organisms/mL (equivalent to 14 organisms detected per test). For specimens in C&S
media, the LoD was established at 245 organisms/mL (equivalent to 12 organism
detected per test). No testing with adhesin was conducted in Cary Blair media or
C&S.
6

--- Page 7 ---
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross reactivity.
The E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test was evaluated for cross-reactivity with the
bacteria and viruses listed below. None of the strains were shown to interfere with the
performance of the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test. Bacteria was spiked at
concentration of >108 CFU/mL and viruses at a range from 103.3 to 108.75 TCID units
50
per 0.2 mL.
Aeromonas hydrophila Bacillus cereus
Bacillus subtilis Bacteroides fragilis
Campylobacter coli Campylobacter fetus
Campylobacter jejuni Candida albicans
Clostridium bifermentans Clostridium difficile
Enterococcus faecalis Escherichia coli
Escherichia coli O157:H7 Escherichia coli EIEC
Escherichia coli EPEC Escherichia coli ETEC
Klebsiella pneumoniae Salmonella typhimurium
Shigella dysenteriae Shigella flexneri
Shigella sonnei Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus aureus (Cowan’s) Staphylococcus epidermidis
Vibrio parahaemolyticus Yersinia enterocolitica
Adenovirus, 2, 5, 40, 41 Coxsackievirus B5
Echovirus 11, 18, 22, 33 Enterovirus 68, 69
Human Adenovirus 1, 3 Human Coronavirus
Human Coxsackievirus B2, B3, B4 Human Echovirus 9
Human Enterovirus 69, 70, 71 Human parechovirus 1 [Echovirus 22]
Human Rotavirus
Cross reactivity with Norovirus is unknown because it was not tested in analytical
studies. However, Norovirus GI/GII was identified in 50 clinical specimens using an
FDA cleared multiplex NAAT assay during clinical testing and no cross reactivity
was found using the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK in those samples
The following parasites were found during clinical testing and found not to be cross
reactant. The fecal specimens were documented to be positive for parasites by
microscopy. The number in parenthesis is the number of individual clinical samples
that were microscopy positive for the parasites listed below. No cross-reactivity was
seen with any of the following organisms.
Ascaris lumbricoides and with eggs (21)
Entamoeba bangladeshi (3)
Giardia spp. (45)
Blastocystis hominis (12)
7

--- Page 8 ---
Entamoeba coli (13)
Iodamoeba bütschlii (10)
Cryptosporidium spp. (30)
Entamoeba moshkovskii (3)
Trichuris trichiura eggs (11)
Cryptosporidium spp. (30)
Entamoeba moshkovskii (3)
Trichuris trichiura eggs (11)
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
g. Prozone:
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that a high concentration of E.
histolytica adhesion (antigen) does not interfere with a positive reaction in the E.
HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test. High samples were prepared by spiking a negative
fecal pool with 20,000 x the LoD described in section M.1.c above down to a
concentration possibly observed in clinical specimens. A total of 5 different dilutions
of the analyte, including the clinically observed high concentration, were prepared
and tested. Testing was performed in triplicate according to the Package Insert
instructions. The results below demonstrated that there was no overall hook affect,
that elevated levels of analyte did not affect the detection of the analyte.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Prospective Study
The performance of the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK CHEK test was evaluated at three
independent sites. The sensitivity and specificity for the E. HISTOLYTICA QUIK
CHEK device was determined using the following composite reference method
(CRM) table 1 at all three sites:
8

--- Page 9 ---
Table 1. CRM algorithm
FDA cleared
Alternate PCR with
Microscopy multiplex NAAT CRM Result
sequencing
test
Pos Pos Pos Pos
Pos Pos Neg Neg
Pos Neg Pos Pos
Pos Neg Neg Neg
Neg Pos Pos Pos
Neg Pos Neg Neg
Neg Neg N/A Neg
Prospective testing consisted of 755 specimens from two non-endemic areas in the
US and one endemic area in Bangladesh. The endemic area had 5 CRM positive
specimens. The remaining 750 samples were all negative. Table 2 below summarizes
the performance observed, which mainly focused on evaluation of specificity due to
the low number of positive specimens (See retrospective study).
Table 2. Performance….
Composite Reference Composite Reference
N = 755
Method Positive Method Negative
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™ 2 0
Positive
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™ 3 750
Negative
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 40.0% 7.3% - 83.0%
Specificity 100% 99.4% - 100%
Predictive Positive
100% 19.8% - 100%
Value
Predictive Negative
99.6% 98.7% - 99.9%
Value
Correlation 99.6% 99.6% - 99.6%
It should be noted additional discrepant analysis was done on the three false positive
results because all three were microscopy negative, FDA cleared multiplex NAAT
test positive and alternate PCR positive. Additional testing was performed and all
three samples were determined to be negative by an alternative antigen test.
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Microscopy	FDA cleared
multiplex NAAT
test	Alternate PCR with
sequencing	CRM Result
Pos	Pos	Pos	Pos
Pos	Pos	Neg	Neg
Pos	Neg	Pos	Pos
Pos	Neg	Neg	Neg
Neg	Pos	Pos	Pos
Neg	Pos	Neg	Neg
Neg	Neg	N/A	Neg

[Table 2 on page 9]
	Composite Reference	Composite Reference
N = 755		
	Method Positive	Method Negative
		
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™
Positive	2	0
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™
Negative	3	750

[Table 3 on page 9]
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	40.0%	7.3% - 83.0%
Specificity	100%	99.4% - 100%
Predictive Positive
Value	100%	19.8% - 100%
Predictive Negative
Value	99.6%	98.7% - 99.9%
Correlation	99.6%	99.6% - 99.6%

--- Page 10 ---
Retrospective Study
Retrospective testing consisted of 96 archived specimens previously collected and
frozen. The Frozen samples are characterized as microscopy and NAAT positive for
inclusion into the specimen bank. The specimens were collected form an E.
histolytica endemic area. Table 3 below summarizes the performance observed
Table 3……
Composite Reference Composite Reference
N = 96
Method Positive Method Negative
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™ 30 0
Positive
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™ 0 66
Negative
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 100% 85.9% - 100%
Specificity 100% 93.1% - 100%
The age range for the 851 samples is one year to 100 years old. 161 of the sample
tested were from children less than 21 years old. 57.3 percent of the specimens were
from males and 42.7% of the specimens were from females.
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M3a. above.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable.
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
	Composite Reference	Composite Reference
N = 96		
	Method Positive	Method Negative
		
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™
Positive	30	0
E. HISTOLYTICA
QUIK CHEK™
Negative	0	66

[Table 2 on page 10]
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	100%	85.9% - 100%
Specificity	100%	93.1% - 100%

--- Page 11 ---
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11