
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K171078
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for the simultaneous detection of Giardia
spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and/or Entamoeba histolytica antigens in human stool
C. Measurand:
Giardia spp. antigen
Cryptosporidium spp. antigen
Entamoeba histolytica antigen
D. Type of Test:
Enzyme Linked Immunosorbant Assay
E. Applicant:
TechLab Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Tri-Combo Parasite Screen
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR Part 866.3220 Entamoeba histolytica Serological Reagents
2. Classification:
II
1

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
MHJ, MHI and KHW
4. Panel:
83 Microbiology
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The TECHLAB TRl-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test is an enzyme immunoassay for
the simultaneous qualitative detection of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and/or E.
histolytica antigen in human fecal specimens. The test is indicated as an aid in the
diagnosis of gastrointestinal infection when giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis and amebiasis is
suspected. The test does not differentiate between the three parasites and follow-up
testing is required for all positive results to confirm the specific diagnosis.
2. Indication(s) for use:
The TECHLAB TRl-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test is an enzyme immunoassay for
the simultaneous qualitative detection of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and/or E.
histolytica antigen in human fecal specimens. The test is indicated as an aid in the
diagnosis of gastrointestinal infection when giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis and amebiasis is
suspected. The test does not differentiate between the three parasites and follow-up
testing is required for all positive results to confirm the specific diagnosis.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
A spectrophotometric plate reader capable of reading the following wave lengths 450nm
or 450/620nm.
I. Device Description:
The TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test is an enzyme immunoassay for the simultaneous
qualitative detection of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and/or E. histolytica antigen in
human fecal specimens. The test uses monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to cell-surface
antigens of Giardia, Cryptosporidium and E. histolytica. The microassay plate in the kit
contains immobilized monoclonal antibodies against the antigens, and the Conjugate consists
of polyclonal antibodies against the antigens. In the assay, an aliquot of a diluted fecal
specimen is transferred to a microassay well. The immobilized monoclonal antibodies bind
2

--- Page 3 ---
the Giardia, Cryptosporidium and/or E. histolytica antigens if they are present. Upon
addition, Conjugate then binds to the antigen/ antibody complex. Any unbound materials are
removed during the washing steps. Following the addition of Substrate, a color is detected
due to the enzyme-antibody-antigen complexes that formed in the presence of antigens and
conjugate. The color if positive is a yellow color that may be read visually or at the following
wave lengths 450nm or 450/620 Nm.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
GIARDIA/CRYPTOSPORIDIUM CHEK
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K051929
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device (K171028) Predicate (K051929)
Intended Use The TECHLAB TRl-COMBO The GIARDIA/
PARASITE SCREEN test is an CRYPTOSPORIDIUM CHEK test
enzyme immunoassay for the is an enzyme immunoassay for the
simultaneous qualitative detection qualitative detection of Giardia
of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium cyst and Cryptosporidium oocyst
spp. and/or E. histolytica antigen in antigen in human fecal specimens.
human fecal specimens. The test is It is indicated for use as an aid in
indicated as an aid in the diagnosis the diagnosis of patients with
of gastrointestinal infection when diarrhea suspected of Giardia
giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis and and/or Cryptosporidium
amebiasis is suspected. The test gastrointestinal infections
does not differentiate between the
three parasites and follow-up
testing is required for all positive
results to confirm the specific
diagnosis.
Technology Enzyme Linked Immunoassay Same
(ELISA)
Antibody Format Monoclonal capture Ab Polyclonal Same
secondary Ab
Type of Test Qualitative Same
Format/Tests Microassay Well Plate (96 tests) Same
Controls Positive and negative control are Same
included in the kit
Interpretation Spectrophotometrically and Same
visually
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities								
	Item			Device (K171028)			Predicate (K051929)	
Intended Use			The TECHLAB TRl-COMBO
PARASITE SCREEN test is an
enzyme immunoassay for the
simultaneous qualitative detection
of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium
spp. and/or E. histolytica antigen in
human fecal specimens. The test is
indicated as an aid in the diagnosis
of gastrointestinal infection when
giardiasis, cryptosporidiosis and
amebiasis is suspected. The test
does not differentiate between the
three parasites and follow-up
testing is required for all positive
results to confirm the specific
diagnosis.			The GIARDIA/
CRYPTOSPORIDIUM CHEK test
is an enzyme immunoassay for the
qualitative detection of Giardia
cyst and Cryptosporidium oocyst
antigen in human fecal specimens.
It is indicated for use as an aid in
the diagnosis of patients with
diarrhea suspected of Giardia
and/or Cryptosporidium
gastrointestinal infections		
Technology			Enzyme Linked Immunoassay
(ELISA)			Same		
Antibody Format			Monoclonal capture Ab Polyclonal
secondary Ab			Same		
Type of Test			Qualitative			Same		
Format/Tests			Microassay Well Plate (96 tests)			Same		
Controls			Positive and negative control are
included in the kit			Same		
Interpretation			Spectrophotometrically and
visually			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Analyte Detected Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium Giardia spp., and Cryptosporidium
spp., and E. histolytica specific spp., specific antigens
antigens
Acceptable Specimen Type Fecal specimens in Cary-Blair and Specimens in preservation media
C&S Transport Media of 10% buffered formalin or
Sodium Acetate Formalin (SAF)
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP07-A2 Interference Testing In Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline - Second
Edition
CLSI EP15-A3 User Verification of Precision And Estimation Of Bias; Approved Guideline
- Third Edition
CLSI EP17-A2 Evaluation Of Detection Capability For Clinical Laboratory Measurement
Procedures; Approved Guideline - Second Edition
L. Test Principle:
Enzyme Linked Immunosorbant Assay
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test was determined using a
masked fecal specimen panel comprised of 24 specimens spiked with different levels
of whole organisms. The samples were prepared using a negative fecal pool and
spiked with the following organisms individually Giardia cysts, Cryptosporidium
oocysts or E. histolytica whole organisms. The panel consisted of two negative
specimens, two high negative specimens (just below C5), two low positive specimens
(just above LoD), and two moderate positive (2-3x higher than the C95) specimens
for each of the three organisms (eight specimens for each organism). Each fecal
specimen was spiked using whole organism to achieve the desired level. The
specimens were tested twice a day over a 12 day period by multiple technicians using
two different kit lots. Positive and negative controls were run with each sample panel
of masked specimens. The positive specimens tested positive 100% of the time and
the negative specimens tested negative 100% of the time (Only 2 of 1152 test results
for the masked specimens were misclassified).
The reproducibility of the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test was determined
using masked fecal specimen panel comprised of 20 specimens spiked with different
levels of whole organisms that were prepared the same way as described for the
precision study except that the same two negatives were used for all three sample
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Analyte Detected			Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium
spp., and E. histolytica specific
antigens			Giardia spp., and Cryptosporidium
spp., specific antigens		
Acceptable Specimen Type			Fecal specimens in Cary-Blair and
C&S Transport Media			Specimens in preservation media
of 10% buffered formalin or
Sodium Acetate Formalin (SAF)		

--- Page 5 ---
types. Testing was performed at two independent external laboratories and one
internal site at TECHLAB, Inc. The specimens were tested twice a day over a five
day period by multiple technicians at each site using two different kit lots. Positive
and negative controls were run with each sample panel of masked specimens. The
result from each laboratory were submitted to TECHLAB Inc. and compared. The
results were consistent among all three locations.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Storage stability study
The effect of specimen storage on antigen stability was evaluated for both fresh
samples and samples in transport media. The following transport media were used for
the study: Thermo Scientific Protocol Cary Blair media and Meridian Bioscience
Inc., Para-Pak C&S. For the analysis, a total of 39 fecal specimens were tested with
the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test. The samples were prepared using a
negative fecal pool and spiked with the following organisms individually Giardia
cysts, Cryptosporidium oocysts or E. histolytica whole organisms. The panel
consisted of three negative specimens used for all three anayltes, three high negative
(just below C5), three low positive (just above LoD), three moderate positive (2-3x
higher than the C95) and three high positive (4-5x higher than the C95) specimens for
each of the three organisms (12 for each and three negatives used for all three
organisms). Each fecal specimen was spiked using whole organism to achieve the
desired level.
Fresh samples were stored at refrigerated temperatures (between 2°C and 8°C) and
were tested at day 0, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10. For refrigerated conditions, the positive and
negative specimens gave the expected results 100% of the time.
Fecal specimens added to Cary Blair were transported as recommended in the Cary
Blair package insert; Cary Blair samples were stored between 20°C and 25°C. Para-
Pak C&S samples were stored at both refrigerated (2°C to 8°C) and room temperature
(15°C to 30°C) conditions as indicated in the package insert. Samples stored in
transport media were tested at 24 hour intervals form 0 to 96 hours. Positive and
negative controls were tested daily.
Transport media stability:
Storage in transport media affected the stability of the samples. Based on the results
from stability studies, the recommended storage times/temperatures are as follows:
For Cary Blair transport media up to 96 hours between 20°C to 25°C,
For C&S transport media up to 96 hours between 2 to 8°C and 48 hours between
15°C to 30°C based on the study results.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Frozen sample stability:
Stability of frozen raw stool samples was established using 39 masked fecal
specimens panel prepared the same way as was described for the storage stability
study. Samples were stores at < -10°C for 8 weeks. Specimens were tested at 0, 1, 4
and 8 weeks. Positive samples remained positive and negative samples remained
negative throughout the study.
Freeze/Thaw
A study was conducted to determine stability after one freeze/thaw cycle for Cary
Blair and C&S media compared to raw specimens for each analyte and to support and
facilitate testing of samples in analytical and clinical studies. Eighty masked samples
were tested [10 true negative, 30 high negative (just belowC5 (whole organisms)), 30
low positives (1-2 times C95 (whole organisms)), and 10 high positives (4-5 x LoD
(whole organisms)] were tested for each of the three organisms in each transport
media and raw stool. Based on the data submitted, the freeze-thaw cycle enhances the
performance for E. histolytica in raw stool from 0% detected before freezing to 100%
reactivity for the high negative samples tested after a single freeze thaw cycle.
Giardia and Cryptosporidium raw samples demonstrated a slight decrease from 100%
to 86.7% reactivity for the high negative samples.
Giardia and Cryptosporidium samples preserved in Cary Blair demonstrated a very
slight improvement from 93.3%-100% reactivity for the high negative samples only.
All other results at different concentrations did not change during the study. Testing
for all samples with the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN was done before and after
a single freeze thaw cycle.
The information suggests that there is no influence on sample reactivity after a single
freeze-thaw cycle, except for a slight increase the reactivity of the high negative
sample.
d. Detection limit:
The cutoff point (limit of detection, LoD) for the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
test was determined using whole organism spiked into unpreserved (raw stool) and
preserved (Cary Blair and C&S media). The cutoff is the concentrations of Giardia,
Cryptosporidium or E. histolytica that yields a positive result 95% of the time and a
negative result 5% of the time. The cutoff point was determined as the concentration
that provided the correct result 95% of the time based on testing dilutions of whole
organism in a negative fecal sample matrix, in replicates of 20. LoD testing was read
at both single and dual wave length reads. The LoD between single wave lengths
reads and duel wave length reads was not significantly different; however single
wavelength reads trended slightly higher for some but not all analytes and sample
types. Single wavelength reads are as follows:
Test results determined the LoD for whole organism in raw stool to be 8450 cysts/mL
for Giardia (equivalent to 169) cysts detected per test), 47962 oocysts/mL for
6

--- Page 7 ---
Cryptosporidium (equivalent to 959) oocysts detected per test), and 1676 whole
organisms/mL for E. histolytica (equivalent to 34 whole organisms per test).
Test results determined the LoD for whole organism in stool and Cary Blair to be
34155 cysts/mL for Giardia (equivalent to 427 cysts detected per test), 99456
oocysts/mL for Cryptosporidium (equivalent to 1243 oocysts detected per test), and
4655 whole organisms/mL for E. histolytica (equivalent to 49 whole organisms per
test).
Test results determined the LoD for whole organism in stool and C&S to be 37095
cysts/mL for Giardia (equivalent to 464 cysts detected per test), 12299 oocysts/mL
for Cryptosporidium (equivalent to 1529 oocysts detected per test), and 3948 whole
organisms/mL for E. histolytica (equivalent to 49 whole organisms per test).
There was no significant difference observed for samples stored in transport media
compared to fresh fecal samples when accounting for the difference in dilution for a
fresh sample (1:5 dilution) versus a sample stored in transport media (1:2 dilution) for
single or dual wavelength results. Because the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test
detects soluble antigen in fecal specimens in addition to cysts, oocysts, and
trophozoites, this LoD study represents an estimate of analytical sensitivity based on
purified cysts, oocysts, and whole organisms.
e. Analytical specificity:
Cross reactivity
The TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test was evaluated for cross-reactivity with
the bacteria and viruses listed below. None of the strains were shown to interfere with
the performance of the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test. Bacteria were
spiked at concentration of >108 CFU/mL and viruses at a range from 103.3 to 108.75
TCID units per 0.2 mL.
50
Aeromonas hydrophila Bacillus cereus
Bacillus subtilis Bacteroides fragilis
Campylobacter coli Campylobacter fetus
Campylobacter jejuni Candida albicans
Clostridium bifermentans Clostridium difficile
Enterococcus faecalis Escherichia coli
Escherichia coli O157:H7 Escherichia coli EIEC
Escherichia coli EPEC Escherichia coli ETEC
Klebsiella pneumoniae Salmonella typhimurium
Shigella dysenteriae Shigella flexneri
Shigella sonnei Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus aureus (Cowan’s) Staphylococcus epidermidis
Vibrio parahaemolyticus Yersinia enterocolitica
Calicivirus Cytomegalovirus
7

--- Page 8 ---
Echovirus 11, 18, 33 Human Rotavirus
Human Adenovirus 1 2,3, 5, 40, 41 Human Coronavirus
Human Coxsackievirus B2, B3, B4, B5 Human Echovirus 9
Human Enterovirus 68, 69, 70, 71 Human parechovirus 1 [Echovirus 22]
Cross reactivity with Norovirus is unknown because it was not tested in analytical
studies. However, Norovirus GI/GII was identified in 35 clinical specimens and and
Enterotoxigenic E. Coli - ETEC LT/ST was identified in 107 clinical specimens,using
an FDA cleared multiplex NAAT assay during clinical testing and no cross reactivity
was found using the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN in those samples
The following parasites were detected by microscopy in fecal specimens tested during
clinical studies. The number in parenthesis is the number of individual clinical
samples that were microscopy positive for the parasites listed below. No cross-
reactivity was seen with the fecal specimens that were positive for: .
Ascaris lumbricoides and with eggs (22)
Entamoeba bangladeshi (3)
Blastocystis hominis (11)
Entamoeba coli (16)
Iodamoeba bütschlii (10)
Entamoeba moshkovskii (3)
Trichuris trichiura eggs (12)
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
g. Prozone
The purpose of this study was to ensure that a high concentration of analyte does not
interfere with the performance of the TRICOMBO PARASITE SCREEN test. Five
different dilutions of each analyte were prepared, starting with 2X the clinically
observed high concentration. For Giardia cysts this was 6 x 105 cysts/gram stool, for
Cryptosporidium oocysts this was 2 x 105 oocysts/gram stool, and for E. histolytica
this was 4 x 104 whole organisms/mL. Serial dilutions were made at a 1:2 dilution
into a negative fecal pool. Testing was performed in triplicate according to the
Package Insert instructions. The results below demonstrated that there was no overall
hook affect, that elevated levels of analyte did not affect the detection of the analyte.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
8

--- Page 9 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity:
Prospective Study
The performance of the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test was evaluated at 3
independent sites. The performance of the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test
was compared to light microscopy, and molecular testing by polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) for sub-speciation of E. histolytica. Molecular testing consisted of a
commercial FDA cleared device and PCR with sequencing if applicable for the
identification of Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp., and E. histolytica.
Prospective testing consisted of 754 specimens from two geographically distinct areas
in the US and one E. histolytica endemic area in Bangladesh. The three sites yield a
total of 14 microscopy positive samples (13 Giardia and one E. histolytica. The
remaining 740 samples were negative. Of the 740 negative samples, four were E.
histolytica positive by molecular comparison only but were negative by TRI-COMBO
PARASITE SCREEN, negative by microcopy and negative by FDA cleared antigen
test for E. histolytica. Table 1 below summarizes the performance observed, which is
primarily as study to evaluate specificity due to the low number of positive specimens
(See retrospective study for evaluation of sensitivity). Prospective testing was also
read visually and performance was not significantly different from
spectrophotometric readings.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Table 1. Summary of prospective clinical performance comparing the TRI-
COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test to microscopy for Giardia, Cryptosporidium and
E. histolytica.
Microscopy
TRI-COMBO PARASITE
SCREEN (N = 754)
Positive Negative
Positive 13 14*
Negative 1 726
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 92.9% 68.5% - 98.7%
Specificity 98.1% 96.9% - 98.9%
Specimens Positive for Giardia by microscopy/
12/13
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica by microscopy/
1/1
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
*The fourteen TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN positives that were microscopy negative were
confirmed to be positive for Giardia with an alternate FDA cleared antigen test or by PCR with
sequencing.
Retrospective Study
Testing consisted of 96 archived specimens previously collected and frozen from the
Bangladesh clinical site. The Frozen samples are included in the bank based on being
characterized as microscopy and PCR positive. The specimens were collected form an
E. histolytica endemic area and contained specimens also positives for Giardia and
Cryptosporidium. Table 2 below summarizes the performance observed.
Retrospective testing was also read visually and performance was not different from
spectrophotometric readings.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
		
	Microscopy	
TRI-COMBO PARASITE		
		
SCREEN (N = 754)		
	Positive	Negative
		
		
Positive	13	14*
Negative	1	726
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	92.9%	68.5% - 98.7%
Specificity	98.1%	96.9% - 98.9%

[Table 2 on page 10]
Specimens Positive for Giardia by microscopy/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	12/13
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica by microscopy/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	1/1

--- Page 11 ---
Table 2. Summary of retrospective clinical performance comparing the TRI-
COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test to Microscopy and PCR
Microscopy and PCR
TRI-COMBO PARASITE
SCREEN (N = 96)
Positive Negative
Positive 85 0
Negative 5 6
95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity 94.4% 87.7% - 97.6%
Specificity 100% 61.0% - 100%
Specimens Positive for Giardia/
41/41
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Specimens Positive for Cryptosporidium/
27/30
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica/
28/30
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Note: Eight specimens were dual positive for Giardia and E. histolytica by the Microscopy and PCR and
tested positive in the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test. Three specimens were dual positive for
Giardia and Cryptosporidium by Microscopy and PCR and tested positive in the TRI-COMBO PARASITE
SCREEN test.
The prospective study results were analyzed by considering a composite result from
multiple tests that consisted of light microscopy, molecular testing consisting of a
commercial FDA cleared device and PCR with sequencing for the identification of
Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp., in addition to identification and subspeciation of
E. histolytica. This testing was mainly done because identification of E. histolytica
organisms cannot be determined solely by microscopy because it is morphologically
indistinguishable from the non-pathogenic E. dispar. Use of an alternate molecular
testing is needed to confirm Entamoeba speciation. The molecular testing algorithm
used provides a comparator method that is highly sensitive at the detection of Giardia
spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and E. histolytica. The performance is summarized in
Table 3 below and is presented as positive percent agreement and negative percent
agreement. The algorithm used is presented in Table 4 below.
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
		
	Microscopy and PCR	
TRI-COMBO PARASITE		
		
SCREEN (N = 96)		
	Positive	Negative
		
		
Positive	85	0
Negative	5	6
		95% Confidence Limits
Sensitivity	94.4%	87.7% - 97.6%
Specificity	100%	61.0% - 100%

[Table 2 on page 11]
Specimens Positive for Giardia/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	41/41
Specimens Positive for Cryptosporidium/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	27/30
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	28/30

--- Page 12 ---
Table 3. Summary of prospective clinical performance comparing the TRI-
COMBO PARASITE SCREEN test to microscopy and molecular testing
Microscopy and Molecular testing
TRI-COMBO PARASITE
Positive Negative
SCREEN (N = 754)
Positive 18 9*
Negative 11** 716
95% Confidence Limits
Positive Percent Agreement 62.1% 44.0% - 77.3%
Negative Percent Agreement 98.8% 97.7% - 99.4%
Specimens Positive for Giardia/
17/24
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica/
1/5
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
Specimens Positive for Cryptosporidium/
0/0
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN
*These nine speciemns were tested with an alternate FDA cleared antigen test
resulting in 9/9 Giardia determined to be antigen paositive.
**These eleven specimens were tested with an alternate FDA cleared antigen test
resulting in 6/7 Giardia and 4/4 E. histolytica determined to be antigen negative.
Table 4. Microscopy and molecular testing algorithm
Alternate PCR with
Microscopy Luminex xTag GPP Algorithm Result
sequencing
Pos Pos Pos Pos
Pos Pos Neg Neg
Pos Neg Pos Pos
Pos Neg Neg Neg
Neg Pos Pos Pos
Neg Pos Neg Neg
Neg Neg N/A Neg
b. Clinical specificity:
See section M3a. above.
c. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable
12

[Table 1 on page 12]
		
	Microscopy and Molecular testing	
		
TRI-COMBO PARASITE		
	Positive	Negative
SCREEN (N = 754)		
		
Positive	18	9*
Negative	11**	716
		95% Confidence Limits
Positive Percent Agreement	62.1%	44.0% - 77.3%
Negative Percent Agreement	98.8%	97.7% - 99.4%

[Table 2 on page 12]
Specimens Positive for Giardia/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	17/24
Specimens Positive for E. histolytica/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	1/5
Specimens Positive for Cryptosporidium/
Specimens Detected by the TRI-COMBO PARASITE SCREEN	0/0

[Table 3 on page 12]
Microscopy	Luminex xTag GPP	Alternate PCR with
sequencing	Algorithm Result
Pos	Pos	Pos	Pos
Pos	Pos	Neg	Neg
Pos	Neg	Pos	Pos
Pos	Neg	Neg	Neg
Neg	Pos	Pos	Pos
Neg	Pos	Neg	Neg
Neg	Neg	N/A	Neg

--- Page 13 ---
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
13