
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER K171664
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own Class II,
Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable (delete/add
items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device: VARIANTTMnbs Sickle Cell
Program, K080911.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in its
labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for use,
package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are
permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering drawings,
photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL
SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
This change was for a the addition of HbReview Software and a product name change from
VARIANTTMnbs Sickle Cell Program to Hemoglobin Variants System on Newborn Screening System with
GDM and HbReview Software.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate device
including: labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and assay methods. The only difference
between the subject device and predicate is the addition of the HbReview Software which offers central
site result collection and review capabilities for results transmitted from the GDM (Genetic Disease
Management) software. When compared to the predicate device labeling, the modified device includes
instructions for transmitting run data using the Genetic Data Management (GDM) 3.1.5 Software for the
Newborn Hemoglobin System™ (NHS), and an additional instruction manual for the HbReview Software
that describes functionality, usability and interface requirements and limitations.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the device
and its components, and the results of the analysis. Risk Analysis was performed following Risk
Management Procedure; SOP 2013. Software updates were reviewed using Failure Mode Effects
Analysis to identify potential risks (Appendix A), ISO 14971 and FDA guidance for the Content of
Premarket Submission for Software Contained in Medical Devices. A high level risk analysis and a
detailed software risk analysis with mitigation information were provided in the Verification and
Validation Report and Software Hazard Analysis Report (Appendix A). In conclusion, no patient or
safety risks are introduced.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria was applied and found to be satisfactory. No
safety risks were introduced. Descriptions of the verification and validation activities were
provided for the Hemoglobin Variants System. System level test protocols, including pass/fail
criteria, and test results for newborn screening hemoglobin assays were also provided.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2of 2
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.