
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: THE FILE RE: DOCUMENT NUMBER k171080
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the
SUBMITTER’S own Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following
items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device. (For
a preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
k033185, COBAS Integra ALP IFCC Gen.2
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device
as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling
which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as
they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail
to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the
modified device has not changed.
This change was for the following items:
a) A change in traceability of the ALP2 assay from the IFCC (1983) reference
method to the modified IFCC (2011) reference method.
b) The addition of I index and L index for the icterus and lipemia interference claims
to the labeling.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally
marketed predicate device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics,
and performance characteristics.
5. Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the
modification on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be
applied.
1

--- Page 2 ---
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental
scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control
information as specified in the New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend
the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.
2