
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K171061
B. Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination from for MRSASelect II agar for the
qualitative detection of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus from anterior nares, and
skin and soft tissue wound specimens.
C. Measurand:
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
D. Type of Test:
Detection of MRSA using a selective and differential chromogenic medium
E. Applicant:
Bio-Rad Laboratories
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
MRSASelect II
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.1700
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
JSO: Culture media, Antimicrobial susceptibility test, excluding Mueller Hinton Agar
1

--- Page 2 ---
4. Panel:
Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
MRSASelect II is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for:
a) The qualitative detection of nasal colonization of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) to aid in the prevention and control of MRSA infection in healthcare
settings. The test can be performed on anterior nares specimens from patients to
screen for MRSA colonization. MRSASelect II is not intended to diagnose MRSA
infection nor to guide or monitor treatment of infection. A negative result does not
preclude MRSA nasal colonization. Concomitant cultures are necessary to recover
organisms for identification, antimicrobial susceptibility testing, or epidemiological
typing. Results can be interpreted after 18 to 28 hours incubation.
b) The qualitative detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
from skin and soft tissue wound specimens. The MRSASelect II is indicated for use
in conjunction with other laboratory tests and clinical data available to aid in the
identification and diagnosis of MRSA from patients with skin and soft-tissue
infections. Concomitant cultures and antimicrobial susceptibility testing are
necessary for all skin and soft-tissue wound specimens. MRSASelect II is not
intended to guide, or monitor treatment for MRSA infection, or provide results of
susceptibility to methicillin. Results can be interpreted after 18 to 28 hour incubation.
2. Indication(s) for use:
See Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
Prescription Use
Limitations
The growth requirements of certain MRSA strains can lead to their partial or total
inhibition in culture on MRSASelect II.
Some strains of coagulase-negative Staphylococci, methicillin-susceptible
Staphylococcus aureus, and other non-Staphylococcal isolates may grow as pink
colonies on MRSASelect II. If in doubt, confirm identification by performing a Gram
stain and further testing, and determine the resistance profile if a S. aureus strain is
identified.
2

--- Page 3 ---
4. Special instrument requirements:
None
I. Device Description:
The MRSASelect II is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for the qualitative
detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from anterior nares and
detection of MRSA from skin and soft-tissue wound specimens. The selectivity of this
medium is due to an antifungal/antibiotic mixture that inhibits the growth of yeast, Gram
negative, and Gram positive bacteria, with the exception of methicillin-resistant
staphylococci. MRSA will appear as pink colonies on the agar medium. Identification of
MRSA is based on the cleavage of a chromogenic substrate by a specific enzymatic activity
of Staphylococcus aureus, leading to a pink coloration of the MRSA colonies.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Bio-Rad MRSASelect Extended Incubation
Bio-Rad MRSASelect Wound Specimen
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K081212
K100589
3. Comparison with predicate:
Table 1. Comparison with Predicate Device
Similarities
Predicate for skin and
Device Predicate for anterior
soft-tissue wound
Item nares specimens
specimens
(K171061) (K081212)
(K100589)
Intended Use MRSASelect II is a selective and MRSASelectis a MRSASelectis a
differential chromogenic medium selective and differential selective and differential
for: chromogenic medium for chromogenic medium for
the qualitative detection the qualitative detection
A) The qualitative detection of of nasal colonization of of methicillin-resistant
nasal colonization of methicillin‐ methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus
resistant Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from skin and
(MRSA) to aid in the prevention (MRSA) to aid in the soft-tissue wound
and control of MRSA infections in prevention and control of specimens. The medium
healthcare settings. The test can be MRSA infections in is indicated for use in
performed on anterior nares healthcare settings. The conjunction with other
specimens from patients to screen test can be performed on laboratory tests and
for MRSA colonization. anterior nares specimens clinical data available to
MRSASelect II is not intended to from patients and aid inthe identification
diagnose MRSA infection nor to healthcare workers to and diagnosis of MRSA
guide or monitor treatment of screen for MRSA from patients with skin
infection. A negative result does colonization. and soft-tissue infections.
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities					
Item	Device
(K171061)	Predicate for anterior
nares specimens
(K081212)		Predicate for skin and	
				soft-tissue wound	
				specimens	
				(K100589)	
Intended Use	MRSASelect II is a selective and
differential chromogenic medium
for:
A) The qualitative detection of
nasal colonization of methicillin‐
resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA) to aid in the prevention
and control of MRSA infections in
healthcare settings. The test can be
performed on anterior nares
specimens from patients to screen
for MRSA colonization.
MRSASelect II is not intended to
diagnose MRSA infection nor to
guide or monitor treatment of
infection. A negative result does	MRSASelectis a
selective and differential
chromogenic medium for
the qualitative detection
of nasal colonization of
methicillin‐resistant
Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA) to aid in the
prevention and control of
MRSA infections in
healthcare settings. The
test can be performed on
anterior nares specimens
from patients and
healthcare workers to
screen for MRSA
colonization.	MRSASelectis a
selective and differential
chromogenic medium for
the qualitative detection
of methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA) from skin and
soft-tissue wound
specimens. The medium
is indicated for use in
conjunction with other
laboratory tests and
clinical data available to
aid inthe identification
and diagnosis of MRSA
from patients with skin
and soft-tissue infections.		

[Table 2 on page 3]
Device

(K171061)

[Table 3 on page 3]
Predicate for anterior
nares specimens
(K081212)

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Predicate for skin and
Device Predicate for anterior
soft-tissue wound
Item nares specimens
specimens
(K171061) (K081212)
(K100589)
not preclude MRSA nasal MRSASelect is not Concomitant cultures and
colonization. Concomitant cultures intended to diagnose susceptibility testing are
are necessary to recover organisms MRSA infection nor to necessary for all skin and
for identification, antimicrobial guide or monitor soft-tissue wound
susceptibility testing, or treatment of infection. specimens. MRSASelect
epidemiological typing. Results Results can be interpreted is not intended to guide,
can be interpreted after 18 to 28 after 18-28 hours or monitor treatment for
hours incubation. incubation. MRSA infection, or
provides results of
B) The qualitative detection of
susceptibility to
methicillin‐resistant
methicillin. Results can
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
be interpreted after 18 to
from skin and soft tissue wound
28 hours incubation.
specimens. The MRSASelect II is
indicated for use in conjunction
with other laboratory tests and
clinical data available to aid in the
identification and diagnosis of
MRSA from patients with skin and
soft‐tissue infections. Concomitant
cultures and antimicrobial
susceptibility testing are necessary
for all skin and soft‐tissue wound
specimens. MRSASelect II is not
intended to guide, or monitor
treatment for MRSA infection, or
provide results of susceptibility to
methicillin. Results can be
interpreted after 18 to 28 hours
incubation.
Methodology Selective and Selectiveand
Selective and differential
differential differential
chromogenic agar
chromogenic agar chromogenic agar
Incubation 18-28 hours 18-28 hours 18-28 hours
Interpretation Manual Manual Manual
Differences
Predicate for skin and
Predicate for anterior
soft tissue wound
Item Device nares specimens
specimens
(K081212)
(K100589)
Inoculation Direct and indirect
Direct Direct
(saline)
Specimen Anterior nares
Anterior nares Skin and soft-tissue
Type Skin and soft-tissue
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities				
Item	Device
(K171061)	Predicate for anterior
nares specimens
(K081212)	Predicate for skin and
soft-tissue wound
specimens
(K100589)	
	not preclude MRSA nasal
colonization. Concomitant cultures
are necessary to recover organisms
for identification, antimicrobial
susceptibility testing, or
epidemiological typing. Results
can be interpreted after 18 to 28
hours incubation.
B) The qualitative detection of
methicillin‐resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
from skin and soft tissue wound
specimens. The MRSASelect II is
indicated for use in conjunction
with other laboratory tests and
clinical data available to aid in the
identification and diagnosis of
MRSA from patients with skin and
soft‐tissue infections. Concomitant
cultures and antimicrobial
susceptibility testing are necessary
for all skin and soft‐tissue wound
specimens. MRSASelect II is not
intended to guide, or monitor
treatment for MRSA infection, or
provide results of susceptibility to
methicillin. Results can be
interpreted after 18 to 28 hours
incubation.	MRSASelect is not
intended to diagnose
MRSA infection nor to
guide or monitor
treatment of infection.
Results can be interpreted
after 18-28 hours
incubation.	Concomitant cultures and
susceptibility testing are
necessary for all skin and
soft-tissue wound
specimens. MRSASelect
is not intended to guide,
or monitor treatment for
MRSA infection, or
provides results of
susceptibility to
methicillin. Results can
be interpreted after 18 to
28 hours incubation.	
Methodology	Selective and differential
chromogenic agar	Selective and
differential
chromogenic agar	Selectiveand
differential
chromogenic agar	
Incubation	18-28 hours	18-28 hours	18-28 hours	
Interpretation	Manual	Manual	Manual	

[Table 2 on page 4]
Differences					
Item	Device	Predicate for anterior
nares specimens
(K081212)		Predicate for skin and	
				soft tissue wound	
				specimens	
				(K100589)	
Inoculation	Direct	Direct and indirect
(saline)	Direct		
Specimen
Type	Anterior nares
Skin and soft-tissue	Anterior nares	Skin and soft-tissue		

--- Page 5 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
· CLSI M22‐A3: Quality Control for Commercially Prepared Microbiological Culture
Media; Approved Standard – Third Edition
· CLSI M40‐A: Quality Control of Microbiological Transport Systems; Approved
Standard
· CLSI M100‐S23: Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing;
Twenty‐Third Informational Supplement
· CLSI M100‐S26: Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing;
Twenty‐Sixth Informational Supplement
· Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Establishing the Performance
Characteristics of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Detection of methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) for Culture Based Devices.
L. Test Principle:
The MRSASelect II is a selective and differential chromogenic medium for the qualitative
detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The selectivity of this
medium is due to an antifungal/antibiotic mixture that inhibits the growth of yeast, Gram
negative, and Gram positive bacteria, with the exception of methicillin-resistant
staphylococci. Detection is based on the cleavage of a chromogenic substrate by a specific
enzyme activity of Staphylococcus aureus, leading to a pink coloration of the Staphylococcus
aureus colonies.
Within 18-28 hours incubation time, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus will
produce pink colonies on the MRSASelect II. Coagulase negative methicillin-resistant
staphylococci do not metabolize the chromogenic substrate and therefore appear as colorless
or white colonies. Methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) and methicillin-
susceptible coagulase negative Staphylococcus are inhibited.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility was demonstrated at three study sites over a period of five test days
using a blinded panel of 10 ATCC reference strains of Staphylococcus. Panel
members included MRSA, MSSA, and S. epidermidis. Each day of testing, the panel
members were prepared, randomized, and blinded to the operators inoculating and
reading MRSASelect II plates. Cell suspensions contain approximately 1X102-3
CFU/mL for MRSA, 1X103-4 CFU/mL of MRSA ATCC BAA-2313™, and 1X106-7
for both S.epidermidis and MSSA. At each study site, panel members were tested by
5

--- Page 6 ---
two operators using three lots of MRSASelect II. The plates were incubated at 35-
37°C, in ambient air. Colonial growth and color were recorded at 18, 24, and 28 hours
post incubation. Based on an overall ≥ 95% pass/fail criteria, the18, 24 and 28 hour
incubation results were consistent with the expected results with all strains tested
using MRSASelect II.
A second study was conducted to evaluate reproducibility using cell suspensions at
concentrations close to the device limit of detection (LoD). The study panel included
six ATCC reference strains of MRSA prepared in saline suspensions at
concentrations that ranged from 80-240 CFU/mL. One of the six MRSA strains
(ATCC BAA-2132, mecC MRSA) was also tested at a concentration of 800-2400
CFU/mL. Panel members were tested at one site, by three independent operators over
the course of five non-consecutive days, using one lot of MRSASelect II. The plates
were incubated at 35-37°C, in ambient air. Colonial growth and color were recorded
at 18, 24, and 28 hours post incubation. Based on an overall ≥ 95% pass/fail criteria,
the18, 24 and 28 hour incubations resulted in expected results for all five of the six
strains tested. The pass/fail criterion was not met for strain ATCC BAA-2312 (mecC
MRSA) when tested at a concentration range of 80-240 CFU/mL, however the
acceptance criterion was met for this particular strain when tested at a concentration
of 800-2400 CFU/mL; this was attributed to inherent characteristics of this mecC
MRSA strain1.
The following limitation was included in the device package insert to address this
finding:
The growth requirements of certain MRSA strains can lead to their partial or total
inhibition in culture on MRSASelect II.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not applicable.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
During the clinical study, quality control (QC) testing was performed on the
MRSASelect II each day of testing using the following QC organisms.
· Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 – Negative Control
· Staphylococcus aureus (mecA positive) ATCC 43300 – Positive Control
1“mecC MRSA typically have lower MICs to oxacillin and cefoxitin that their mecA counterparts and this may affect
their recovery on selective agars”. Paterson GK, Harrison EM, Holmes MA. The emergence of mecC methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Trends in Microbiology 2014;22(1):42-47. doi:10.1016/j.tim.2013.11.003.
6

--- Page 7 ---
Table 2. Quality Control Expected Results
Expected results after
Inoculum
Quality Control Test Strains 24 hours at 35-37°C
Concentration
(ambient air)
Negative Control ATCC 25923 106-7 CFU/mL No growth
Positive Control ATCC 43300 104-5 CFU/mL Pink Colonial Growth
QC organisms were prepared in saline to achieve a 0.5 McFarland suspension that
was further diluted 1:10. A 10 μL aliquot of the negative control strain (ATCC
25923) was inoculated and streaked onto MRSASelect II. The positive control strain
(ATCC 43300) was further diluted 1:1000 before a 10 μL aliquot was inoculated and
streaked onto MRSASelect II. After 24 hours of incubation at 35-37°C (ambient air),
MRSASelect II plates were read and evaluated in accordance with expected results.
QC data was collected across all three study sites during the clinical study and all QC
results were acceptable.
d. Recovery/Limit of Detection (LoD):
A recovery (LoD) study was performed using five dilutions each of two well
characterized strains of MRSA. Each dilution was plated on three MRSASelect II
plates and one blood agar plate and incubated at 35-37°C (ambient air) for 18, 24, and
28 hours. The number and color of colonies was recorded after each incubation
period. The results of the study revealed that the LoD for growth on MRSASelect II
was 80 CFU/mL for organism saline suspensions.
A second study was performed to evaluate MRSASelect II recovery (LoD) for
organisms prepared in saline and also prepared in both human anterior nares and skin
and soft tissue wound swab matrices. The study was performed using four well
characterized strains of MRSA each prepared in saline suspensions at four
concentrations (105, 104, 103, 102 CFU/mL). A total of 100 uL of each MRSA-saline
suspension was inoculated directly onto each of three MRSASelect II plates. In
parallel, MRSA-negative swabs with matrix were spiked using 100 µL of MRSA-
saline suspension and streaked onto each of three MRSASelect II plates. An aliquot
of 100 µL of each MRSA-saline suspension was also inoculated onto a blood agar
plate to serve as a control and to confirm the inoculum concentration. All plates were
incubated at 35-37°C (ambient air). After 18, 24, and 28 hours incubation, plates were
examined and the number of pink colonies was counted and recorded. The LoD was
determined using plates with an appropriate number of countable colonies. The LoD
for each matrix was determined separately and compared to results of samples
without matrix. The LoD for nasal and wound matrices was observed to be 1 log
higher (800 CFU/mL) than that of saline (80 CFU/mL).
e. Analytical Sensitivity (Inclusivity)
A test panel of 54 well characterized MRSA strains were plated on MRSASelect II
using saline suspension concentrations of 80-240 CFU/mL (1-3X LoD). The test
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Quality Control	Test Strains	Inoculum
Concentration		Expected results after	
				24 hours at 35-37°C	
				(ambient air)	
Negative Control	ATCC 25923	106-7 CFU/mL	No growth		
Positive Control	ATCC 43300	104-5 CFU/mL	Pink Colonial Growth		

[Table 2 on page 7]
Inoculum
Concentration

--- Page 8 ---
panel members consisted of clinically associated strains from the Network on
Antimicrobial Resistance in Staphylococcus aureus (NARSA) and one ATCC strain
(ATCC BAA-2312, mecC). Serial dilutions of each strain were prepared in saline
from a 0.5 McFarland suspension and plated onto MRSASelect II and blood agar
plates. MRSASelect II plates were incubated at 35-37°C, in ambient air and read at
18, 24, and 28 hours. The color and number of colonies for each strain was recorded.
A total of 53/54 MRSA strains grew as pink colonies on MRSASelect II after 18
hours incubation. One strain, NRS 642, was observed as no growth on MRSASelect II
at 18 hours. After 24 and 28 hours incubation, all 54 strains grew on MRSASelect II
as pink colonies.
f. Analytical specificity:
Cross Reactivity
A cross-reactivity study was performed using a total of 109 strains from organisms
that could potentially be encountered in anterior nares or skin and soft tissue wound
specimens. Organisms tested included methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus
(MSSA), methicillin-resistant coagulase negative Staphylococcus (MRCNS),
organisms of other genera, and fungi. Testing of 30 additional MSSA strains and
seven Staphylococcus cohnii strains was conducted to determine potential assay
limitations.
For each organisms tested a 0.5 McFarland suspension (~108 CFU/mL) was prepared
in saline using an 18-24 hour organism culture. A 1:10 dilution of the 0.5 McFarland
suspension was prepared and 10 μL was inoculated and streaked on each of two
MRSASelect II plates. A blood agar plate was also inoculated and streaked for use in
confirming colony counts. All plates were incubated and read after 24, and 28 hours
incubation. Cross reactivity was defined as growth of pink colonies on MRSASelect
II at 24, and/or 28 hours.
The majority of the organisms tested did not result in growth of pink colonies on
MRSASelect II at 24, and/or 28 hours. However, for the following organisms,
growth of colonies with a faint pink coloration when in clusters was observed:
· Corynebacterium imitans
· Corynebacterium jeikeium
· Aerococcus viridans
· Staphylococcus cohnii
· Staphylococcus sciuri
The following limitation was included in the device package insert to address this
finding:
Some strains of Corynebacterium imitans, Corynebacterium jeikeium, Aerococcus
viridans, Staphylococcus cohnii and Staphylococcus sciuri may develop faint pink
8

--- Page 9 ---
colonies with a more intense coloration when in clusters , but non-pink when colonies
are isolated (which enable differentiation from MRSA colonies). If in doubt, confirm
the identification of such isolated colonies by Gram stain and further testing.
In addition, a total of 50 MSSA strains were tested, and two strains produced colonies
with pink coloration on MRSASelect II. The following limitation was also included
in the device package insert to address this finding and false positives observed in the
clinical study:
Some strains of coagulase-negative Staphylococci, methicillin-susceptible
Staphylococcus aureus, and other non-Staphylococcal isolates may grow as pink
colonies on MRSASelect II. If in doubt, confirm identification by performing a Gram
stain and further testing, and determine the resistance profile if a S. aureus strain is
identified.
Interfering Substances
The following 20 substances were evaluated at physiologically or biologically
relevant concentrations for potential interference with the performance of
MRSASelect II:
Table 3. Potential Interfering Substances
Saline Neosynephrine (Nasal Spray) Dristan 12h (Nasal Spray)
Ayr Saline Walgreens First Aid Antiseptic Ocean Premium Saline Nasal
(Nasal Mist) Spray Spray
Throat lozenges, oral anesthetic Zicam Nasal gel-homeopathic
Chloraseptic
and analgesic allergy relief medicine
Tecnu first Aid Antiseptic Pain-
Neosporin Hydrocortisone (ointment)
Relieving Gel
Biol Ease Antibacterial hand sanitizer 70% Isopropyl alcohol
Bactine Betadine Hydrogen peroxide
Blood 30% and 50% Hog gastric mucin 3% and 5%
A single strain of MRSA (NRS 723) was prepared in saline at a concentration of 103
CFU/mL. The MRSA-saline concentration (103 CFU/mL) was well above the device
LoD determined for saline suspensions (80 CFU/mL), therefore the following
limitation was included in the device package insert:
Interference study findings are based on testing conducted using MRSA saline
suspensions at concentrations of 103 CFU/mL. The effect of potentially interfering
endogenous and exogenous substances on the growth and recovery of MRSA at
concentrations lower than 103 CFU/mL on MRSASelect II after 18-28 hours
incubation is unknown.
The MRSA-saline suspension was then mixed with 100 μL or 100 mg of the
interfering solution or compound to achieve a concentration of 5% (v/v or w/v). An
aliquot of this test suspension was inoculated onto two MRSASelect II plates and two
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Saline	Neosynephrine (Nasal Spray)	Dristan 12h (Nasal Spray)
Ayr Saline
(Nasal Mist)	Walgreens First Aid Antiseptic
Spray	Ocean Premium Saline Nasal
Spray
Chloraseptic	Throat lozenges, oral anesthetic
and analgesic	Zicam Nasal gel-homeopathic
allergy relief medicine
Neosporin	Tecnu first Aid Antiseptic Pain-
Relieving Gel	Hydrocortisone (ointment)
Biol Ease	Antibacterial hand sanitizer	70% Isopropyl alcohol
Bactine	Betadine	Hydrogen peroxide
Blood 30% and 50%	Hog gastric mucin 3% and 5%	

--- Page 10 ---
blood agar plates. Plates were incubated at 35-37°C, in ambient air, and evaluated at
18, 24, and 28 hours.
The study findings revealed 12 out of the 20 substances tested showed no notable
effect on the ability of MRSASelect II to support growth and recovery of MRSA. The
following seven substances demonstrated complete inhibition of growth of MRSA on
MRSASelect II:
· Neosynephrine (nasal spray)
· Dristan 12h (nasal spray)
· Ayr Saline (nasal mist)
· Walgreens First Aid (antiseptic spray)
· Tecnu First Aid Antiseptic Pain Relieving Gel
· Bactine
· Betadine
The following substance demonstrated decreased growth and recovery of MRSA on
MRSASelect II.
· Ocean Premium Saline (nasal spray)
The following limitations were added to the device package insert in accordance with
these study findings.
Use of the following compounds may inhibit growth of MRSA on non-selective media
as wells as on MRSASelect II: Neosynephrine®, Dristan 12h®, Ayr Saline®,
Walgreens First Aid Antiseptic Spray®, Tecnu First Aid Antiseptic Pain Relieving
Gel, Bactine, Betadine.
Use of the antibiotic ointment Ocean Premium Saline Nasal Spray (Phenylcarbinol)
may result in decreased growth of MRSA on non-selective media as well as on
MRSASelect II.
Validation of Transport Media
A study was conducted to evaluate the effect of three different transport media on the
growth of MRSA on MRSASelect II. The transport media evaluated included, LQ
Stuart (Becton Dickinson), Amies with Charcoal (Becton Dickinson), and LQ Amies
(COPAN). McFarland 0.5 suspensions of four MRSA strains were diluted to achieve
1X107-8 and 1X104-5 CFU/mL suspensions. Swabs were inoculated with 100 μL of
test suspension and incubated for 24 and 48 hours in the transport media at 20°C,
25°C and 30°C. A t=0 swab was also inoculated in the study. After the incubation is
transport media was complete, the inoculated swabs were diluted in saline (1:10), and
the diluted suspensions were aliquoted onto two blood agar and two MRSASelect II
plates. Plates were incubated at 35-37°C (ambient air) for 24 hours, and all growth
recorded in CFU/mL. The study findings revealed no notable effect of the three
10

--- Page 11 ---
transport media on the growth and recovery of MRSA on MRSASelect II.
Mixed Infection Study
A mixed infection study was conducted to demonstrate that various levels of
Klebsiella pneumoniae or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (102-106
CFU/mL) will not suppress growth of MRSA in concentrations near the device LoD.
The study findings revealed that despite the presence of high concentrations of K.
pneumoniae or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis, MRSA colonies
were effectively detected on MRSASelect II.
g. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
a. Clinical Sensitivity and Clinical Specificity:
Anterior Nares Specimen Type
The performance of the MRSASelect II culture medium with anterior nares
specimens was evaluated at three clinical sites. A total of 2410 anterior nares
specimens were evaluated. All samples were inoculated directly onto media in the
following order:
· MRSASelect II plate
· Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB) with 6.5% NaCl
Performance of MRSASelect II was compared to a culture enrichment broth reference
method. After inoculation TSB with 6.5% NaCl was incubated in ambient air for up
to 48 hours and examined for turbidity. If growth was observed after 24 or 48 hours,
TSB broth was subculture to a blood agar plate and incubated. Suspected
Staphylococcus aureus colonies were identified by Gram stain, catalase, slide
agglutination test for detection of Staphylococcus aureus, tube coagulase, mecA-
mediated oxacillin resistance testing using cefoxitin (30ug) disk, and testing for
11

--- Page 12 ---
PBP2a. If not growth was observed after 24 and 48 hours, the broth culture was
interpreted as negative.
After inoculation, MRSASelect II plates were incubated in ambient air for up to 28
hours. Pink colonies of any intensity on MRSASelect II plate were interpreted as
indicative of the presence of MRSA.
A summary of the clinical performance of MRSASelect II with anterior nares
specimens is illustrated in Table 4 below.
Table 4. Clinical Performance of MRSASelect II versus
Enriched Broth Culture Reference Method - Anterior Nares
Culture Enrichment Broth (PBP2a)
All Sites (Anterior Nares)
POS NEG TOTAL
POS 232 37b 269
MRSASelect II NEG 23 a 2118 2141
(Primary Culture)
TOTAL 255 2155 2410
All Sites 95% C.I.
Sensitivity (%) 91.0% 86.8% 93.9%
Specificity (%) 98.3% 97.6% 98.8%
Pos. Predictive Value 86.2% 81.6% 89.9%
Neg. Predictive Value 98.9% 98.4% 99.3%
a No growth on MRSASelect II for all 23 specimens.
bA total of 11 isolates were determined to be strains of coagulase-negative Staphylococcus species; nine isolates were
determined to be strains of methicillin-susceptible S. aureus; and 27 isolates were determined to be non-S. aureus species.
Skin and Soft Tissue Wound Specimen Type
The performance of MRSASelect II culture medium with skin and soft tissue wound
specimens was evaluated at three clinical sites. A total of 842 wound specimens were
evaluated. All the samples were inoculated directly onto the following media in this
order:
· 5% Sheep Blood Agar
· MRSASelect II
· Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB) with 6.5% NaCl
Performance of MRSASelect II was compared to an enriched broth culture reference
method. After inoculation TSB with 6.5% NaCl was incubated in ambient air for up
to 48 hours and examined for turbidity. If growth was observed after 24 and 48
hours, TSB broth was subcultured to a blood agar plate and incubated. Suspected
Staphylococcus aureus colonies were identified by Gram stain, catalase, slide
12

[Table 1 on page 12]
		Culture Enrichment Broth (PBP2a)		
All Sites (Anterior Nares)				
		POS	NEG	TOTAL
MRSASelect II
(Primary Culture)	POS	232	37b	269
	NEG	a
23	2118	2141
	TOTAL	255	2155	2410
All Sites			95% C.I.	
				
Sensitivity (%)		91.0%	86.8%	93.9%
Specificity (%)		98.3%	97.6%	98.8%
Pos. Predictive Value		86.2%	81.6%	89.9%
Neg. Predictive Value		98.9%	98.4%	99.3%

--- Page 13 ---
agglutination test for detection of Staphylococcus aureus, tube coagulase, and mecA-
mediated oxacillin resistance testing using cefoxitin (30μg) disk. If no growth is
observed after 24 and 48 hours, the broth culture was determined to be negative.
After inoculation, MRSASelect II plates were incubated in ambient air for up to 28
hours. Pink colonies of any intensity on the MRSASelect II plate were interpreted as
indicative of the presence of MRSA.
A summary of the clinical performance of MRSASelect II with skin and soft tissue
wound specimens is illustrated in Table 5 below.
Table 5. Clinical Performance of MRSASelect II versus Enriched Broth Culture
Reference Method - Skin and Soft Tissue Wound
Culture Enrichment Broth (Cefoxitin)
All Sites (Skin and Soft Tissue Wound)
POS NEG TOTAL
POS 147 32(a) 179
MRSASelect II (Primary NEG 5(b) 658 663
Culture)
TOTAL 152 690 842
All Sites 95% C.I.
Sensitivity (%) 96.7% 96.0% 97.5%
Specificity (%) 95.4% 94.5% 96.2%
Pos. Predictive Value 82.1% 80.5% 83.7%
Neg. Predictive Value 99.2% 98.9% 99.6%
aDiscordant analysis was performed for 27 of the 32 specimens identified as MRSA
positive by MRSASelect II and negative by enrichment culture. MRSA was confirmed
in 17 of the 27 specimens using a PBP2a test.
bDiscordant analysis was performed for 5 of 5 specimens identified as MRSA negative by
MRSASelect II and positive by enrichment culture. MRSA was confirmed in 3 of 5
specimens using a PBP2a test.
b. Other clinical supportive data (when a. and b. are not applicable):
Not applicable.
4. Clinical cut-off: Not applicable.
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Anterior nares specimens - The overall prevalence of MRSA as determined by the
enriched broth culture reference method was 10.6% (255/2410). The overall prevalence
of MRSA as determined by MRSASelect II was 11.2% (269/2410).
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
		Culture Enrichment Broth (Cefoxitin)		
All Sites (Skin and Soft Tissue Wound)				
				
		POS	NEG	TOTAL
MRSASelect II (Primary
Culture)	POS	147	32(a)	179
	NEG	5(b)	658	663
	TOTAL	152	690	842
All Sites			95% C.I.	
				
Sensitivity (%)		96.7%	96.0%	97.5%
Specificity (%)		95.4%	94.5%	96.2%
Pos. Predictive Value		82.1%	80.5%	83.7%
Neg. Predictive Value		99.2%	98.9%	99.6%

--- Page 14 ---
Skin and soft tissue wound specimens - The overall prevalence of MRSA as determined
by the enriched broth culture reference method was 18.0% (152/842). The overall
prevalence of MRSA as determined by the MRSASelect II was 21.2% (179/842).
N. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
O. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
14