
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K172604
B. Purpose for Submission:
This submission is a Dual 510(k) and CLIA Waiver by Application (Dual Submission)
tracked as K172604 and CW170012. K172604 was submitted for clearance of a new device.
The new device is a modification of the device previously cleared for point of care (POC) use
under K143577 and CLIA categorized as moderately complex under CR140520.
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Sysmex America Inc., XW-100 Automated Hematology Analyzer for CLIA Waived Use
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Complete blood count (WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, PLT) and leukocyte 3-part
differential (LYM%, Other WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other WBC#, NEUT#).
E. System Descriptions:
1. Device Description:
The XW-100 Automated Hematology Analyzer (XW-100) is an electrical resistance
blood cell counter. This technology may also be referred to as Direct Current (DC) or
impedance. The XW-100 analyzes human whole blood specimens anticoagulated with
K EDTA or K EDTA and reports results for 12 hematology parameters, including the
2 3
basic complete blood count (CBC), 3-part white blood cell (WBC) differential.
2. Principles of Operation:
The XW-100 uses direct current with hydrodynamic focusing for all parameters except
hemoglobin, which is measured photometrically. The patient sample is aspirated,
measured, diluted with diluent (and lysed for WBC measurement), then directed into a
transducer chamber by a hydrodynamic focusing nozzle. The transducer chamber has a
minute hole, or aperture. Electrodes are mounted on both sides of the aperture chamber,
through which the direct current flows. Blood cells suspended in the diluted sample are
injected through the aperture by the hydrodynamic focusing nozzle. The hydrodynamic
focusing nozzle is positioned in front of the aperture and in line with the aperture’s
center. All blood cells are separated from each other and pass through the aperture in one
direction, one cell at a time. When a cell passes through the aperture, it causes a change
in the direct current resistance, which is proportional to the cell’s size. These resistance
1

--- Page 2 ---
changes are captured as electric pulses. The various blood cell counts are calculated by
counting the pulses that occur in each cell size category. The analyzer then determines
blood cell volume and identifies cells by creating and analyzing histograms of the various
cell populations using their respective pulse heights. Hemoglobin is measured
photometrically using a non-cyanide method.
3. Modes of Operation:
The XW-100 operates by automated whole blood analysis.
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ____X____ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ____X____ or No ________
4. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification input is manual (by operator).
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The XW-100 processes anticoagulated venous whole blood collected in K EDTA or
2
K EDTA collection tubes. Samples are manually mixed by inversion and loaded into an
3
onboard sample adapter one at a time.
6. Calibration:
The XW-100 is factory calibrated.
7. Quality Control:
The XW-100 system performance is evaluated using XW QC CHECK, a stabilized whole
blood matrix quality control material designed for statistical process control of the
analyzer. Assayed parameters include: WBC, RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH, MCHC,
PLT, LYM%, OTHER WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, OTHER WBC#, NEUT#, RDW-SD,
RDW-CV and MPV.
8. Software:
The XW-100 POC software was modified to serve a CLIA waived setting. These changes
included consolidating flags and messages for simplicity. No new cybersecurity risks
2

--- Page 3 ---
were identified with respect to these updated software changes. Refer to submission
K143577 for additional software information.
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes____X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR § 864.5220, Automated differential cell counter
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
GKZ, Counter, Differential Cell
4. Panel:
Hematology (81)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The XW-100 Automated Hematology Analyzer (XW-100) is a quantitative automated
hematology analyzer intended for in vitro diagnostic use to classify and enumerate the
following parameters for venous whole blood anticoagulated with K /K EDTA: WBC,
2 3
RBC, HGB, HCT, MCV, PLT, LYM%, Other WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other WBC#,
NEUT#. It is not for use in diagnosing or monitoring patients with primary or secondary
chronic hematologic diseases/disorders, oncology patients, critically ill patients, or
children under the age of 2.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
The XW-100 is intended to be used by operators with a minimum of an earned high
school diploma or equivalent.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Sysmex XW-100 Automated Hematology Analyzer (K143577)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
(K143577)
Intended Use The XW-100 Automated Hematology The Sysmex XW-100™ is a
Analyzer (XW-100) is a quantitative quantitative automated
automated hematology analyzer hematology analyzer intended for
intended for in vitro diagnostic CLIA in vitro diagnostic point-of- care
waived use to classify and enumerate use to classify and enumerate the
the following parameters for venous following parameters for venous
whole blood anticoagulated with whole blood anticoagulated with
K2/K3 EDTA: WBC, RBC, HGB, K2/K3 EDTA: WBC, RBC,
HCT, MCV, PLT, LYM%, Other HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH,
WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other MCHC, PLT, LYM%, Other
WBC#, and NEUT#. It is not for use in WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other
diagnosing or monitoring patients with WBC#, NEUT#, RDW-SD,
primary or secondary chronic RDW-CV, and MPV. It is not for
hematologic diseases/disorders, use in diagnosing or monitoring
oncology patients, critically ill oncology patients, children under
patients, or children under the age of 2. the age of 2, or for chronically or
critically ill patients.
Test Principle Impedance technology (direct current
detection) with hydrodynamic focusing Same
for all parameters except hemoglobin,
which is measured photometrically.
Single hydrodynamic focused
Measuring Channel
Same
impedance chamber
Anticoagulated (K EDTA or K EDTA)
Sample Type 2 3
Same
venous whole blood
Sample aspiration
15 µL Same
volume
Reagents XW Pack L (lyse)
Same
XW Pack D (diluent)
System Throughput 20 cycles per hour Same
Test System Width: 7 inches
Same
Dimensions Height: 14 inches
Depth: 18 inches
Mode of Operation Whole blood mode Same
Calibration and XW QC CHECK (K143577) Same
Quality Control
SCS™-1000 calibrator (K943268)
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities		
Item	Device	Predicate
		(K143577)
Intended Use	The XW-100 Automated Hematology
Analyzer (XW-100) is a quantitative
automated hematology analyzer
intended for in vitro diagnostic CLIA
waived use to classify and enumerate
the following parameters for venous
whole blood anticoagulated with
K2/K3 EDTA: WBC, RBC, HGB,
HCT, MCV, PLT, LYM%, Other
WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other
WBC#, and NEUT#. It is not for use in
diagnosing or monitoring patients with
primary or secondary chronic
hematologic diseases/disorders,
oncology patients, critically ill
patients, or children under the age of 2.	The Sysmex XW-100™ is a
quantitative automated
hematology analyzer intended for
in vitro diagnostic point-of- care
use to classify and enumerate the
following parameters for venous
whole blood anticoagulated with
K2/K3 EDTA: WBC, RBC,
HGB, HCT, MCV, MCH,
MCHC, PLT, LYM%, Other
WBC%, NEUT%, LYM#, Other
WBC#, NEUT#, RDW-SD,
RDW-CV, and MPV. It is not for
use in diagnosing or monitoring
oncology patients, children under
the age of 2, or for chronically or
critically ill patients.
Test Principle	Impedance technology (direct current
detection) with hydrodynamic focusing
for all parameters except hemoglobin,
which is measured photometrically.	Same
Measuring Channel	Single hydrodynamic focused
impedance chamber	Same
Sample Type	Anticoagulated (K EDTA or K EDTA)
2 3
venous whole blood	Same
Sample aspiration
volume	15 µL	Same
Reagents	XW Pack L (lyse)
XW Pack D (diluent)	Same
System Throughput	20 cycles per hour	Same
Test System
Dimensions	Width: 7 inches
Height: 14 inches
Depth: 18 inches	Same
Mode of Operation	Whole blood mode	Same
Calibration and
Quality Control	XW QC CHECK (K143577)
SCS™-1000 calibrator (K943268)	Same

--- Page 5 ---
There is no difference between the XW-100 for CLIA waived use and the XW-100
cleared for POC settings (predicate), aside from the Intended Use population and the
software modifications which produce a decreased number of reported parameters and
simplified flagging.
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
CLSI EP05-A3. Evaluation of Precision of Quantitative Measurement Procedures; Approved
Guideline –Third Edition, 2014
CLSI EP09-A3. Measurement Procedure Comparison and Bias Estimation Using Patient
Samples; Approved Guideline – Third Edition, 2013
CLSI EP21-A2. Evaluation of Total Analytical Error for Quantitative Medical Laboratory
Measurement Procedures. 2nd ed., 2016
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Recommendations for Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) Wavier Applications for Manufacturers of In
Vitro Diagnostic Devices; Issued January 30, 2008
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
A clinical comparison study was conducted to evaluate the performance of the XW-
100 in the hands of the intended users (untrained operators) when performed in a
CLIA waived setting. Reference submission CW170012 for the details of this study.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
For each hematology parameter, information about total error of the XW-100 in the
hands of untrained operators for three sub-ranges (Low, Medium and High) were
compared to the total imprecision in the reproducibility study of the XW-100 in the
hands of trained operators using precision profiles. Reference submission CW170012
for details regarding total error. For details regarding the reproducibility study, refer
to the Decision Summary for K143577. Analysis of the precision profiles described in
the table below demonstrate that the XW-100 device in the hands of untrained and
trained operators have similar imprecision. The imprecsion estimates include
repeatability, different runs, different days, and different sites.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Measurand Precision profiles
WBC
RBC
HGB
HCT
PLT
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Measurand	Precision profiles
WBC	
RBC	
HGB	
HCT	
PLT	

--- Page 7 ---
NEUT #
LYMP #
Other WBC #
MCV
c. Linearity:
Measuring ranges of the new device were narrower than those of the XW-100 in the
hands of trained operators, therefore, linearity data of the XW-100 were applicable to
the new device. Refer to submission K143577 for the details of the linearity study.
d. Carryover:
Carryover of the XW-100 was evaluated during the clearance of the device for the
POC setting. Refer to submission K143577 for the details of this study.
e. Interfering Substances:
An interference study was conducted to determine the interference level with the
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
NEUT #	
LYMP #	
Other WBC #	
MCV	

--- Page 8 ---
hematology results generated by the XW-100 for the following interfering substances:
Bilirubin F, Bilirubin C, hemolytic hemoglobin, chyle, and lipids (Intralipid). Refer to
submission K143577 for the details of this study.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
In 2008 and 2009, the Hematology and Pathology Devices Panel of the Medical Devices
Advisory Committee met to provide advice and recommendations to the FDA regarding
the CLIA waiver application for an automated WBC analyzer. The panel expressed
several key concerns during the meeting leading to a recommendation that the WBC
analyzer not be granted waived status. Below is a list of panel concerns and the solutions
implemented by Sysmex to mitigate these concerns.
Panel Questions/Concerns Solution
Do clinically important but undetected A sample challenge study was conducted to
interferences, such as NRBC or abnormal verify that the XW-100 will appropriately flag
WBC, affect the system’s status as a simple and/or suppress results for samples with
test? abnormal findings, such as Nucleated Red
Blood Cells (NRBC’s), that could lead to the
reporting of erroneous results in the CLIA
waived setting.
For all 229 samples tested, with a variety of
potential sources of error, the XW-100 results
were appropriately suppressed and the presence
of potentially interfering substances did not
result in the reporting of erroneous results.
Reflex testing in moderately complex For results that are outside the reference range,
laboratories, triggered by abnormal WBC the XW-100 prompts the user to repeat testing
results, can enable diagnosis of clinically before results are printed by the device. Once
serious diseases. Does the absence of such the printout is received, the clinician will then
reflex testing increase the potential for an make the decision of how to proceed based on
erroneous clinical impression in a waived the results and within the context of the
setting? patient’s clinical presentation.
Is this ATE zone consistent with what is needed The Allowable Total Error (ATE) utilizing the
for adequate clinical performance across all CLIA’88 42 CFR 493.941 ranges was defined.
WBC levels and clinical contexts? The CLIA ’88 regulations were not appropriate
for performance validation requirements and
more stringent ATE limits for reportable
parameters on the XW-100 in the CLIA waived
setting were developed. Reference submission
CW170012 for ATE values for all reported
parameters.
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Panel Questions/Concerns	Solution
Do clinically important but undetected
interferences, such as NRBC or abnormal
WBC, affect the system’s status as a simple
test?	A sample challenge study was conducted to
verify that the XW-100 will appropriately flag
and/or suppress results for samples with
abnormal findings, such as Nucleated Red
Blood Cells (NRBC’s), that could lead to the
reporting of erroneous results in the CLIA
waived setting.
For all 229 samples tested, with a variety of
potential sources of error, the XW-100 results
were appropriately suppressed and the presence
of potentially interfering substances did not
result in the reporting of erroneous results.
Reflex testing in moderately complex
laboratories, triggered by abnormal WBC
results, can enable diagnosis of clinically
serious diseases. Does the absence of such
reflex testing increase the potential for an
erroneous clinical impression in a waived
setting?	For results that are outside the reference range,
the XW-100 prompts the user to repeat testing
before results are printed by the device. Once
the printout is received, the clinician will then
make the decision of how to proceed based on
the results and within the context of the
patient’s clinical presentation.
Is this ATE zone consistent with what is needed
for adequate clinical performance across all
WBC levels and clinical contexts?	The Allowable Total Error (ATE) utilizing the
CLIA’88 42 CFR 493.941 ranges was defined.
The CLIA ’88 regulations were not appropriate
for performance validation requirements and
more stringent ATE limits for reportable
parameters on the XW-100 in the CLIA waived
setting were developed. Reference submission
CW170012 for ATE values for all reported
parameters.

--- Page 9 ---
Panel Questions/Concerns Solution
The intent of Congress when CLIA’88 was The accuracy of the XW-100 was previously
passed was that all tests should be the same and demonstrated in the point-of-care setting
patients should expect the same leve l of (K143577). In addition, the data generated from
accuracy from a lab test performed by their the clinical field study for the XW-100 in the
personal physician as they do from a lab test CLIA waived setting in conjunction with the
conducted in a large hospital or a commercial flex studies demonstrates the XW-100 is simple
lab. to use and does not generate erroneous results.
Quality control should be required. The XW-100 requires quality control be run
every 8 hours and have acceptable results. The
acceptability of QC results is interpreted by the
instrument software and not the operator in the
waived setting. If QC does not pass, the
operator is locked out and patient testing is
prevented.
What do the error codes signify and how many All error resolution is performed by the system
error codes are there? automatically. The exceptions are simple power
cycling and insertion of XW CELLCLEAN
which is done by the operator when prompted
by an on-screen message. There are no error
codes an operator has to interpret.
If operator training is necessary, is the device The XW-100 does not require operator training.
really simple? Can any of the setup features be On-screen prompts and Quick Guides are
locked so that an operator cannot skip the available to direct the operator through
correct setup? instrument setup and testing. The device
software does not allow the operator to skip
steps in the device setup or in running patient
samples.
What would happen if an EDTA sample is A flex study was conducted to assess the use of
inadequately mixed? a sample that is inadequately mixed by the
phlebotomist post venipuncture as well as
inadequate mixing prior to testing the sample.
Results from this study demonstrate that
inadequate mixing of blood samples by the
phlebotomist immediately post collection is
unlikely to impact results. Results also revealed
that testing samples that have been allowed to
settle for more than 10 minutes without proper
mixing prior to testing will impact results. The
on-screen prompt provides a reminder to mix
the tube prior to testing. The flagging/
suppression rules will lead to retesting the
samples when results are outside of the normal
range.
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Panel Questions/Concerns	Solution
The intent of Congress when CLIA’88 was
passed was that all tests should be the same and
patients should expect the same leve l of
accuracy from a lab test performed by their
personal physician as they do from a lab test
conducted in a large hospital or a commercial
lab.	The accuracy of the XW-100 was previously
demonstrated in the point-of-care setting
(K143577). In addition, the data generated from
the clinical field study for the XW-100 in the
CLIA waived setting in conjunction with the
flex studies demonstrates the XW-100 is simple
to use and does not generate erroneous results.
Quality control should be required.	The XW-100 requires quality control be run
every 8 hours and have acceptable results. The
acceptability of QC results is interpreted by the
instrument software and not the operator in the
waived setting. If QC does not pass, the
operator is locked out and patient testing is
prevented.
What do the error codes signify and how many
error codes are there?	All error resolution is performed by the system
automatically. The exceptions are simple power
cycling and insertion of XW CELLCLEAN
which is done by the operator when prompted
by an on-screen message. There are no error
codes an operator has to interpret.
If operator training is necessary, is the device
really simple? Can any of the setup features be
locked so that an operator cannot skip the
correct setup?	The XW-100 does not require operator training.
On-screen prompts and Quick Guides are
available to direct the operator through
instrument setup and testing. The device
software does not allow the operator to skip
steps in the device setup or in running patient
samples.
What would happen if an EDTA sample is
inadequately mixed?	A flex study was conducted to assess the use of
a sample that is inadequately mixed by the
phlebotomist post venipuncture as well as
inadequate mixing prior to testing the sample.
Results from this study demonstrate that
inadequate mixing of blood samples by the
phlebotomist immediately post collection is
unlikely to impact results. Results also revealed
that testing samples that have been allowed to
settle for more than 10 minutes without proper
mixing prior to testing will impact results. The
on-screen prompt provides a reminder to mix
the tube prior to testing. The flagging/
suppression rules will lead to retesting the
samples when results are outside of the normal
range.

--- Page 10 ---
Panel Questions/Concerns Solution
Current cell counters are complicated. They The only maintenance required for the XW-100
require substantial maintenance and regular is weekly cleaning of the transducer and waste
calibration. chamber which is automatically prompted and
performed by the system. The operator is
prompted to insert a tube of ready-to-use XW
CELLCLEAN. Once the XW CELLCLEAN is
inserted, the device performs weekly cleaning.
After completion of weekly cleaning, the
device prompts the operator to open the sample
door and remove and dispose of the used tube.
The weekly cleaning takes less than 10 minutes
and is required every 7 days. Weekly cleaning
is tracked automatically by the device.
The operator never performs calibration. The
XW-100 is calibrated prior to shipping to
customers. Quality control (QC) is required
every 8 hours to ensure the system is
functioning properly. If QC fails twice in a row,
the user is instructed to call Sysmex Technical
Assistance Center (TAC). A replacement
instrument is sent to the customer and the
current instrument will be returned for service
and/or recalibration.
Since these systems report many components of The operator is not required to interpret results.
the complete blood count, understanding of all Results are printed with the reference range
the results often requires interpretation by a comparatives for the indicated age of the
medical technologist or a physician. patient by the system with no operator
involvement. For any parameter results outside
of the normal range, the operator will be
prompted by the software to repeat testing. If
the results from the second run confirm the
results from the first run, the results will print.
If the results from the second run do not
confirm the results from the first run, the results
are suppressed on the printout. The instrument
instructs the operator to deliver the printout to
the ordering clinician. Once the printout is
received, the clinician will then make the
decision of how to proceed based on the results
and within the context of the patient’s clinical
presentation.
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
Panel Questions/Concerns	Solution
Current cell counters are complicated. They
require substantial maintenance and regular
calibration.	The only maintenance required for the XW-100
is weekly cleaning of the transducer and waste
chamber which is automatically prompted and
performed by the system. The operator is
prompted to insert a tube of ready-to-use XW
CELLCLEAN. Once the XW CELLCLEAN is
inserted, the device performs weekly cleaning.
After completion of weekly cleaning, the
device prompts the operator to open the sample
door and remove and dispose of the used tube.
The weekly cleaning takes less than 10 minutes
and is required every 7 days. Weekly cleaning
is tracked automatically by the device.
The operator never performs calibration. The
XW-100 is calibrated prior to shipping to
customers. Quality control (QC) is required
every 8 hours to ensure the system is
functioning properly. If QC fails twice in a row,
the user is instructed to call Sysmex Technical
Assistance Center (TAC). A replacement
instrument is sent to the customer and the
current instrument will be returned for service
and/or recalibration.
Since these systems report many components of
the complete blood count, understanding of all
the results often requires interpretation by a
medical technologist or a physician.	The operator is not required to interpret results.
Results are printed with the reference range
comparatives for the indicated age of the
patient by the system with no operator
involvement. For any parameter results outside
of the normal range, the operator will be
prompted by the software to repeat testing. If
the results from the second run confirm the
results from the first run, the results will print.
If the results from the second run do not
confirm the results from the first run, the results
are suppressed on the printout. The instrument
instructs the operator to deliver the printout to
the ordering clinician. Once the printout is
received, the clinician will then make the
decision of how to proceed based on the results
and within the context of the patient’s clinical
presentation.

--- Page 11 ---
Panel Questions/Concerns Solution
The CLIA waived study was not performed in The XW-100 clinical study was conducted at
the U.S. Is there sufficient data to show that the six CLIA waived testing sites in the U.S. at
test can be performed with a reasonable degree locations with diverse patient and operator
of accuracy that would not invalidate its demographics. The sites covered a wide range
medical usefulness when used by CLIA waived of specialties, including family practice,
operators in CLIA waived settings? internal medicine, diabetes practice, and
pediatrics.
Has the performance of the device been The XW-100 is contraindicated for use in
adequately studied in the leukopenic diagnosing or monitoring patients with primary
population. For example, cancer patients or secondary chronic hematologic
undergoing chemotherapy or many African diseases/disorders, oncology patients, or
Americans with benign leukopenia. children under the age of 2.
Another criterion for a simple test is that
‐
When the XW-100 detects a specimen
instruction for confirmatory testing should be abnormality, the instrument printout contains a
provided where advisable. Clear criteria for message for the clinician that reads
confirmatory testing of abnormal or “RECOMMEND FURTHER TESTING.” This
inconsistent test results should be established. message alerts clinicians that further testing is
recommended. Sending these samples to the
moderately/highly complex lab for further
testing is in line with current standard of care
and will not cause a delay in patient diagnosis.
The number one patient safety issue, is patient The instrument produces a printout with the
identification. Is there some ability to enter or patient ID, date of birth, results, and any flags.
store that information to ensure accurate results Results are not displayed on the screen of the
are matched with the right patient? device. This reduces the risk of an operator
providing results of an incorrect patient to the
clinician or making a transcription error when
documenting results in a medical record.
The instrument instructs the operator to deliver
the printout to the clinician. The operator has
no other responsibility in this process.
When you have normal versus abnormal, how Results are printed with the reference range
much judgment is required? Can results be comparatives for the indicated age of the
printed, saved, or retrieved so there is a record patient by the system with no operator
of the results. involvement. For results that are outside the
reference range, the XW-100 will print one of
the following:
1) numeric result plus a “High” or “Low” flag
2) “****” (suppressed result) plus an “ALERT
L” or “ALERT H” flag.
A results printout is always produced by the
instrument when testing is fully completed.
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
Panel Questions/Concerns	Solution
The CLIA waived study was not performed in
the U.S. Is there sufficient data to show that the
test can be performed with a reasonable degree
of accuracy that would not invalidate its
medical usefulness when used by CLIA waived
operators in CLIA waived settings?	The XW-100 clinical study was conducted at
six CLIA waived testing sites in the U.S. at
locations with diverse patient and operator
demographics. The sites covered a wide range
of specialties, including family practice,
internal medicine, diabetes practice, and
pediatrics.
Has the performance of the device been
adequately studied in the leukopenic
population. For example, cancer patients
undergoing chemotherapy or many African
Americans with benign leukopenia.	The XW-100 is contraindicated for use in
diagnosing or monitoring patients with primary
or secondary chronic hematologic
diseases/disorders, oncology patients, or
children under the age of 2.
‐
Another criterion for a simple test is that
instruction for confirmatory testing should be
provided where advisable. Clear criteria for
confirmatory testing of abnormal or
inconsistent test results should be established.	When the XW-100 detects a specimen
abnormality, the instrument printout contains a
message for the clinician that reads
“RECOMMEND FURTHER TESTING.” This
message alerts clinicians that further testing is
recommended. Sending these samples to the
moderately/highly complex lab for further
testing is in line with current standard of care
and will not cause a delay in patient diagnosis.
The number one patient safety issue, is patient
identification. Is there some ability to enter or
store that information to ensure accurate results
are matched with the right patient?	The instrument produces a printout with the
patient ID, date of birth, results, and any flags.
Results are not displayed on the screen of the
device. This reduces the risk of an operator
providing results of an incorrect patient to the
clinician or making a transcription error when
documenting results in a medical record.
The instrument instructs the operator to deliver
the printout to the clinician. The operator has
no other responsibility in this process.
When you have normal versus abnormal, how
much judgment is required? Can results be
printed, saved, or retrieved so there is a record
of the results.	Results are printed with the reference range
comparatives for the indicated age of the
patient by the system with no operator
involvement. For results that are outside the
reference range, the XW-100 will print one of
the following:
1) numeric result plus a “High” or “Low” flag
2) “****” (suppressed result) plus an “ALERT
L” or “ALERT H” flag.
A results printout is always produced by the
instrument when testing is fully completed.

--- Page 12 ---
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
12