
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K172174
B. Purpose for Submission:
New display PP27QHD
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS)
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Digital pathology whole slide imaging system
E. System Descriptions:
1. DeviceDescription:
The Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS) is an automated digital slide creation,
management, viewing and analysis system.
The PIPS consists of two subsystems and a display:
• Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) (for software UFS 1.7.1.1, for hardware 4522 010
50003)
• Image Management System (IMS) (for software IMS 2.6.1)
• Display (PP27QHD)
The UFS consists of optical, mechanical, electronic and software elements to scan FFPE
tissue mounted on glass slides at a resolution of 0.25 µm per pixel, which is equivalent to
a 40x objective, to create digital Whole Slide Images (WSI). The UFS has a capacity of
300 slides (15 glass slide racks with up to 20 slides per rack). After the slide racks are
loaded into the UFS, the UFS automatically detects and starts scanning the slides. CCD
cameras are used to capture color images from the back-lit tissue specimen. An LED light
source employs top-lit illumination to capture the barcode and back-lit illumination for
tissue scanning. The stage (STG) and Image Capturing Unit (ICU) are fixed to each other
and to the base frame to ensure correct positioning of the slide and to suppress external
disturbances. Proprietary software is used for image processing during acquisition.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Philips’ proprietary format, iSyntax, is used to store and transmit the images between the
UFS and the IMS.
The IMS is a software only subsystem to be used with the Display. Functionality of the
IMS includes the ability to view images, organize workload, and annotate and bookmark
scanned images. The user manual for PIPs specifies compatible computer environment
hardware and software that is not included as part of the system.
The display is a custom developed 27” color LCD flat panel medical display. The
dithering functionality is implemented on the display itself (PP26QHD). The dithering
operations in the display system do not affect the image characteristics, as both the
display PS27QHDCR and the display PP27QHD (MMPC-4127F1) use the same
temporal dithering schematic and the same 256 pseudo random sequence. The display has
the following specifications:
· 3.6 Megapixel
· Resolution 2560 x 1440
· Backlight : White LED
· Frame rate: 60 Hz ; Refresh rate: 60 Hz
· Connectivity : 100 Mbit/sec or 1 Gbit Ethernet connection to internet/intranet
The different subsystems of the PIPS are connected over an IT network at the user site.
The IT hardware/software that supports the IMS Application Server & Storage software
is not provided as part of the PIPS, but may be located in a central server room separate
from the workstation with the IMS viewing software and Display. The communication of
data between UFS and IMS is via a customer provided wired network or a direct
connected cable between these subsystems. PIPS includes a display that has been
validated as part of the pivotal clinical study.
The PIPS allows pathologists to view and evaluate digital images of formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue slides that would otherwise be appropriate for manual
visualization by conventional brightfield (light) microscopy. The PIPS does not include
any automated Image Analysis Applications that would constitute computer aided
detection or diagnosis.
2. Principles of Operation:
The PIPS device is an automated system designed for scanning and digitizing surgical
pathology slides prepared from FFPE tissue. These digitized images can then be reviewed
and interpreted by pathologists for clinical (patient care) purposes.
Prior to scanning the slide on the UFS, the technician conducts quality control of the
slides per the laboratory’s standards. The technician then places the slides into racks,
which are loaded into the UFS. The handler in the UFS automatically moves a slide from
the storage area to the scanning area. A macro image is generated that includes the slide
label and a low power image of the entire slide. The system then determines regions of
2

--- Page 3 ---
interest in the tissue to scan, which are subsequently scanned at high resolution (0.25 µm
per pixel). After the slide is scanned, it is returned to the same slot of the same rack from
which it was originally obtained.
The images scanned in the UFS are compressed using Philips’ proprietary iSyntax format
and are transmitted to the IMS subsystem. The images can be reviewed through the IMS
only. The IMS allows the user to identify, organize and execute the worklist. The
pathologist selects the first slide, navigates around the slide and views the images at the
desired magnification. The pathologist is responsible for ensuring the validity of the
interpretation of the digital images obtained from the PIPS.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ___X_____ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ____X____
4. Specimen Identification:
The FFPE tissue specimen is identified on the scanned images by patient-specfic
barcodes and/or patient identifying information present on the glass slides.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling, which includes FFPE tissues, is performed by clinicians. Biopsy
specimens are processed by trained healthcare professionals.
6. Calibration:
The UFS performs a series of automatic calibrations. Each whole slide image (WSI)
displays a flag that indicates if the scanner was in a calibrated or un-calibrated state,
thereby providing a visual indicator to the viewer of the WSI. Users also may manually
initiate a calibration, if desired. By default, calibrations are triggered every 4 hours (or
200 slides). Depending on circumstances, this frequency can result in a calibration in the
middle of a run. To prevent such an event, the user may manually initiate the calibration
process prior to scanning a batch (e.g., during slide processing).
Manual calibration may also be initiated if the UFS detects that the instrument is not
calibrated during a slide scan. The system will display a message to the operator
requesting whether the user wishes to accept the slide as is or re-calibrate and rescan the
3

--- Page 4 ---
slide. As a precautionary measure, the system displays a warning message on images that
were scanned using an un-calibrated scanner. In addition to the automated calibration
within the UFS, routine field service visits are planned to calibrate the UFS.
The display is calibrated using a built-in front sensor. Calibrations are initiated by the
QAWeb agent and performed as a background activity. The IMS subsystem does not
require calibration.
7. Quality Control:
It is the responsibility of the laboratory staff to conduct and maintain quality control of
the slides per their laboratory standards (e.g., staining, cover-slipping, barcode
placement) prior to loading the slides into the UFS. After completing a scan, the operator
is instructed by the instructions for use to check image data and image quality using the
IMS Viewer. In addition to calibrations, quality checks for the display are initiated by the
QAWeb agent and performed as a background activity.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes___X_____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.3700
2. Classification:
Class II (special controls)
3 Product code:
PSY
4. Panel:
88 - Pathology
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
4

--- Page 5 ---
The Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS) is an automated digital slide creation,
viewing, and management system. The PIPS is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist to review and interpret digital images of surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is not intended
for use with frozen section, cytology, or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image Management System (IMS), the Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
and Display. The PIPS is for creation and viewing of digital images of scanned glass
slides that would otherwise be appropriate for manual visualization by conventional light
microscopy. It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure the validity of the interpretation of images obtained
using PIPS.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use only
For prescription use only
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS)
DEN160056
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
PIPS (2.6.1) PIPS (2.5)
Intended use The Philips IntelliSite Pathology Same
/Indication for use Solution (PIPS) is an automated
digital slide creation, viewing,
and management system. The
PIPS is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to the
pathologist to review and
interpret digital images of
surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. The PIPS is not intended
for use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		PIPS (2.6.1)			PIPS (2.5)	
Intended use
/Indication for use	The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated
digital slide creation, viewing,
and management system. The
PIPS is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to the
pathologist to review and
interpret digital images of
surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. The PIPS is not intended
for use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE			Same		

--- Page 6 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
PIPS (2.6.1) PIPS (2.5)
hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS), the
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
Display. The PIPS is for creation
and viewing of digital images of
scanned glass slides that would
otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by
conventional light microscopy. It
is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the validity
of the interpretation of images
obtained using PIPS.
Ultra Fast Scanner The UFS consists of optical, Same
(UFS) (for software mechanical, electronic and
UFS1.7.1.1 software elements to scan FFPE
tissue mounted on glass slides at
a resolution of 0.25 µm per
pixel, which is equivalent to a
40x objective, to create digital
Whole Slide Images (WSI). The
UFS has a capacity of 300 slides
(15 glass slide racks with up to
20 slides per rack). After the
slide racks are loaded into the
UFS, the UFS automatically
detects and starts scanning the
slides. CCD cameras are used to
capture color images from the
back-lit tissue specimen.
Differences
Item Device Predicate
PIPS (2.6.1) PIPS (2.5)
Display Temporal and spatial dithering is Temporal and spatial
implemented in the medical dithering is implemented on
display the graphics board
Supported color spaces including sRGB is supported
sRGB:
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		PIPS (2.6.1)			PIPS (2.5)	
	hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS), the
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
Display. The PIPS is for creation
and viewing of digital images of
scanned glass slides that would
otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by
conventional light microscopy. It
is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the validity
of the interpretation of images
obtained using PIPS.					
Ultra Fast Scanner
(UFS) (for software
UFS1.7.1.1	The UFS consists of optical,
mechanical, electronic and
software elements to scan FFPE
tissue mounted on glass slides at
a resolution of 0.25 µm per
pixel, which is equivalent to a
40x objective, to create digital
Whole Slide Images (WSI). The
UFS has a capacity of 300 slides
(15 glass slide racks with up to
20 slides per rack). After the
slide racks are loaded into the
UFS, the UFS automatically
detects and starts scanning the
slides. CCD cameras are used to
capture color images from the
back-lit tissue specimen.			Same		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Differences						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		PIPS (2.6.1)			PIPS (2.5)	
Display	Temporal and spatial dithering is
implemented in the medical
display
Supported color spaces including
sRGB:			Temporal and spatial
dithering is implemented on
the graphics board
sRGB is supported		

--- Page 7 ---
Differences
Item Device Predicate
PIPS (2.6.1) PIPS (2.5)
- DICOM
- Native
Calibration and quality checks Calibration and quality
performed using a built-in sensor checks performed using LCD
and QAWeb Agent software sensor and Nucleus software
Supported display interface Display Port (DP)
including USB 2.0: Universal Serial Bus (USB
- DVI-D dual-link 2.0)
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
The special controls as described in 21 CFR 864.3700(b).
FDA Guidance document: Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole
Slide Imaging Devices. Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff.
April 20, 2016.
ANSI/AAMI/ISO 15223-1: Symbols for use in the labeling of medical devices
ANSI/AAMI ES60601- 1:2005/(R)2012: Medical Electrical Equipment - Part 1: General
Requirements For Basic Safety And Essential Performance (IEC 60601-1:2005, MOD)
AAMI ANSI IEC 62366-1:2015: Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to
medical devices
ASTM D4169-14: Standard Practice for Performance Testing of Shipping Containers and
Systems
IEC 62304:2006 (edition 1.0): Medical device software - Software life- cycle processes
IEC 61010-1:2010 : Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control,
and laboratory use - Part 1: General requirements
IEC 61010-2- 101:2015: Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement,
control, and laboratory use - Part 2-101: Particular requirements for in vitro diagnostic (IVD)
medical equipment
IEC 60601-1-2 (4th Ed): Medical Electrical Equipment - Part 1-2: General Requirements
For Basic Safety And Essential Performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic
Disturbances - Requirements And Tests
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Differences						
Item		Device			Predicate	
		PIPS (2.6.1)			PIPS (2.5)	
	- DICOM
- Native
Calibration and quality checks
performed using a built-in sensor
and QAWeb Agent software
Supported display interface
including USB 2.0:
- DVI-D dual-link			Calibration and quality
checks performed using LCD
sensor and Nucleus software
Display Port (DP)
Universal Serial Bus (USB
2.0)		

--- Page 8 ---
IEC 62471: 2006: Photobiological Safety Of Lamps And Lamp Systems
J. Performance Characteristics:
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
Not applicable
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
c. Linearity:
Not applicable
d. Carryover:
Not applicable
e. Interfering Substances:
Not applicable
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Display Equivalency Study:
Technical performance testing for the PP27QHD display was performed. The new
display was compared to the display that is part of the predicate device PIPS (2.5).
Testing included assessment of the following parameters: luminance, color, noise,
resolution, pixel defects, artifacts, temporal response, grayscale, and specular and diffuse
coefficients. All testing results demonstrated that the PP27QHD display is equivalent to
the predicate device display.
Luminance: The PP27QHD and the predicate device use the same LCD panel. The
luminance remains within the specified range of 350 cd/m2 + 10 %, and the luminance
stability is within approximately 0.4%.
Color: The color scale response when sRGB calibrated and the sRGB gamut are similar
between the PP27QHD and the predicate device. The color stability over time is within
the specified maximum deviation of 0.0050 in both x and y.
Noise: The PP27QHD and the predicate device use the same LCD panel and therefore the
8

--- Page 9 ---
noise and the noise power spectrum are identical. The RMS (image variance) for multiple
video levels of both luminance and color as measured on gray fields were the same.
Resolution: The MTF of the display system was measured according to the method
described by Hans Roehrig et al. (2004) [Hans Roehrig, Jerry Gaskill, Jiahua Fan, Ananth
Poolla, Chadwick Martin, "In-field evaluation of the modulation transfer function of
electronic display devices", Proc. SPIE 5367, Medical Imaging 2004: Visualization,
Image-Guided Procedures, and Display, (5 May 2004)]. The MTF of the camera system
was approximately 98% at the display’s Nyquist frequency. The spatial resolution of the
panel is 109 dpi (dots per inch).
Artifacts: The PP27QHD and the predicate are flat panel displays. There is no problem
of impedance matching in a purely digital system, ringing and ghosting are not present.
This is identical for the PP27QHD and the predicate device.
Temporal response: The PP27QHD and the predicate device use the same LCD panel and
therefore the temporal response is identical. The response time is approximately 12 ms
and the maximum response time is 24 ms.
Grayscale: There is no difference in greyscale behavior between the PP27QHD and the
predicate device when calibrated to sRGB (default setting).
Specular and diffuse coefficients: The same LCD panel is used in both the predicate and
the PP27QHD and therefore the specular and diffuse coefficients in functions of
wavelength are identical.
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Parts 801 and 809, as
applicable, and the special controls for this device type.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
9