
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
OIR Decision Summary
To: THE FILE RE: K173839
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device:
K120489: Pathwork Tissue of Origin Test Kit - FFPE
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described
in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions
for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams, engineering
drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
The following two changes were made: 1) the GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit is used for
amplification and target labeling instead of the RampUp RNA Amplification Kit™ reagents; and 2)
the Chip processing software was updated to the Genechip™ System 3000 Dx v.2 from the
Genechip™ System 3000 Dx, which is no longer supported by the manufacturer. The principles
of the target preparation process have not changed.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, intended use, equipment, reagents and limitations, are summarized in the table
below:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Feature K120489 (Predicate) K173839
Cancer Genetics Tissue of Origin Test
Device Name Pathwork Tissue of Origin Test Kit-FFPE
Kit - FFPE
The Pathwork Tissue of Origin Test is an in vitro
diagnostic intended to measure the degree of
similarity between the RNA expression patterns in
a patient's formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) tumor and the RNA expression patterns in
a database of fifteen tumor types (poorly
differentiated, undifferentiated, and metastatic
cases) that were diagnosed according to then
current clinical and pathological practice. This test
should be evaluated by a qualified physician in the
context of the patient's clinical history and other
diagnostic test results.
Limitations:The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is
Intended use
not intended to establish the origin of tumors (e.g. Same
cancer of unknown primary) that cannot be
diagnosed according to current clinical and
pathological practice. It is not intended to
subclassify or modify the classification of tumors
that can be diagnosed by current clinical and
pathological practice, nor to predict disease
course or survival or treatment efficacy, nor to
distinguish primary from metastatic tumor. Tumor
types not in the Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test
database may have RNA expression patterns that
are similar to patterns in the database. Therefore,
results cannot be used to distinguish tumor types
in the database from tumor types not in the
database.
Microarray Pathchip® Same
Hybridization oven Same
Equipment Scanner Same
Genechip™ System 3000 Dx Genechip™ System 3000 Dx v.2
RNA isolation Extraction Reagents Same
Amplification
RampUp RNA Amplification Kit™ GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit
Reagents
Purification of
Ethanol precipitation GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit
biotinylated cDNA
Percent Positive
Internal Processing
Overall Signal Same
Quality Control
Regional Discontinuity
Analysis Algorithm as described in K092967 Same
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Feature	K120489 (Predicate)	K173839
Device Name	Pathwork Tissue of Origin Test Kit-FFPE	Cancer Genetics Tissue of Origin Test
Kit - FFPE
Intended use	The Pathwork Tissue of Origin Test is an in vitro
diagnostic intended to measure the degree of
similarity between the RNA expression patterns in
a patient's formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) tumor and the RNA expression patterns in
a database of fifteen tumor types (poorly
differentiated, undifferentiated, and metastatic
cases) that were diagnosed according to then
current clinical and pathological practice. This test
should be evaluated by a qualified physician in the
context of the patient's clinical history and other
diagnostic test results.
Limitations:The Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test is
not intended to establish the origin of tumors (e.g.
cancer of unknown primary) that cannot be
diagnosed according to current clinical and
pathological practice. It is not intended to
subclassify or modify the classification of tumors
that can be diagnosed by current clinical and
pathological practice, nor to predict disease
course or survival or treatment efficacy, nor to
distinguish primary from metastatic tumor. Tumor
types not in the Pathwork® Tissue of Origin Test
database may have RNA expression patterns that
are similar to patterns in the database. Therefore,
results cannot be used to distinguish tumor types
in the database from tumor types not in the
database.	Same
Microarray	Pathchip®	Same
Equipment	Hybridization oven	Same
	Scanner	Same
	Genechip™ System 3000 Dx	Genechip™ System 3000 Dx v.2
RNA isolation	Extraction Reagents	Same
Amplification
Reagents	RampUp RNA Amplification Kit™	GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit
Purification of
biotinylated cDNA	Ethanol precipitation	GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit
Internal Processing
Quality Control	Percent Positive
Overall Signal
Regional Discontinuity	Same
Analysis	Algorithm as described in K092967	Same

--- Page 3 ---
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The Risk Analyses were performed to assess the impact of the modifications on the device by
identifying risks, their possible causes, and appropriate control mechanisms. The Risk Analyses took
into account device hazards associated with the intended use of the device. No additional hazards,
no additional causes, and no required additional controls were identified. No adverse advents or
reportable incidents have been associated with the device.
Based on the Risk Analyses conducted, the following studies were performed to verify and/or validate
the modifications to the device:
 Changing the amplification and labeling reagents can potentially alter the expression ratios
of the targets if the process does not accurately reflect the endogenous levels of these
targets before amplification. As a result, the gene expression patterns may be skewed
toward certain subtypes that will increase the chance of misclassification. A validation study
was, therefore, performed with the modified device using 142 specimens that included all 15
subtypes in the database and that were studied in the original validation study with the
predicate test. The concordance in the test results between paired specimens processed
with the RampUp RNA Amplification Kit™ and the GeneChip™ 3' IVT Pico Kit was 90.8%
(95% confidence interval of 83.6% to 95.3%).
 For the software modification, there are risks related to potential alterations to relative probe
intensities on the array which could affect the classification results. Therefore, a validation
study was performed to assess the concordance between the Genechip™ System 3000 Dx
v.2 and the Genechip™ System 3000 Dx using 20 FFPE tumor specimens. All results were
concordant (100% agreement with 95% confidence interval of 95.9% to 100%).
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the applicant’s description of the
particular modifications and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The applicant has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.
3