
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K173840
B. Purpose for Submission:
To change a limitation statement pertaining to pregnant women in the Cepheid Xpert CT/NG
Assay package insert
C. Measurand:
Genomic DNA of Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and/or Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG)
D. Type of Test:
Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
E. Applicant:
Cepheid
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Xpert CT/NG
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CRF 866.3990, Neisseria spp. direct serological test reagents
2. Classification:
Class II
3. Product code:
LSL: DNA-Reagents, Neisseria
MKZ: DNA Probe, Nucleic Acid Amplification, Chlamydia
OOI: Real Time Nucleic Acid Amplification System
4. Panel:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Microbiology (83)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
Xpert CT/NG Assay
The Xpert CT/NG Assay, performed on the GeneXpert Instrument Systems, is a
qualitative in vitro real-time PCR test for the automated detection and
differentiation of genomic DNA from Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and/or
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) to aid in the diagnosis of chlamydial and gonorrheal
urogenital disease. The assay may be used to test the following specimens from
asymptomatic and symptomatic individuals: female and male urine, endocervical
swab, and patient-collected vaginal swab (collected in a clinical setting).
Ancillary Collection Kits
Xpert Vaginal/Endocervical Specimen Collection Kit
The Cepheid Xpert Vaginal/Endocervical Specimen Collection Kit is designed to collect,
preserve and transport Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and Trichomonas
vaginalis DNA in endocervical swab specimens (collected by a clinician) and patient-
collected vaginal swab specimens (collected in a clinical setting) from symptomatic and
asymptomatic women prior to analysis with the Xpert CT/NG Assay and the Xpert TV
Assay.
Xpert Urine Specimen Collection Kit
The Cepheid Xpert Urine Specimen Collection Kit is designed to preserve and transport
Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and Trichomonas vaginalis DNA in
first-catch male and female urine specimens from symptomatic and asymptomatic
individuals prior to analysis with the Xpert CT/NG Assay and the Xpert TV Assay.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For Prescription Use
4. Special instrument requirements:
To be used only with the GeneXpert Instrument Systems
2

--- Page 3 ---
I. Device Description:
The Xpert CT/NG Assay is an automated in vitro diagnostic test for qualitative detection and
differentiation of DNA from Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and/or Neisseria gonorrhoeae
(NG).
The Xpert CT/NG assay is performed on the Cepheid GeneXpert Instrument Systems. The
GeneXpert Instrument System consists of an instrument, personal computer, and preloaded
software for running tests and viewing the results. The system requires single-use, disposable
cartridges that hold the PCR reagents and host the PCR process. It automates and integrates
sample purification, nucleic acid amplification, and detection of the target sequences in the
urogenital samples using real-time PCR for gene specific sequence amplification.
The Xpert CT/NG Assay includes reagents for the 5’ exonuclease real-time PCR detection
and differentiation of CT and NG. Reagents for the detection of a Sample Processing Control
(SPC), a Sample Adequacy Control (SAC), and a Probe Check Control (PCC) are also
included in the cartridge. The SPC is present to control for adequate processing of the target
bacteria and to monitor the presence of inhibitors in the PCR reaction. The SAC reagents
detect the presence of a single copy human gene and monitor whether the specimen contains
human DNA. The PCC verifies reagent rehydration, PCR tube filling in the cartridge, probe
integrity, and dye stability. The primers and probes in the Xpert CT/NG Assay detect
chromosomal sequences in the bacteria.
The Xpert CT/NG Assay is desined for use with urogenital specimens collected using the
ancillary specimen collection kits (described in section H above). The specimen collected
from asymptomatic or symptomatic individual is briefly mixed and transferred to the sample
chamber of the Xpert CT/NG cartridge using the supplied transfer pipette. The cartridge is
loaded onto the GeneXpert Instrument System platform, which performs hands-off,
automated sample processing and real-time PCR for detection of DNA. Test results are
obtained in approximately 90 minutes and are displayed in tabular and graphic formats.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Xpert CT/NG
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
K121710
3. Comparison with predicate:
3

--- Page 4 ---
Table 1: Similarities between Cepheid Xpert CT/NG and Predicate Device
Similarities
Item Device Predicate Device
Cepheid Xpert CT/NG Cepheid Xpert CT/NG
(K173840) (K121710)
Regulation 866.3390 866.3390
Device Class II II
Technology/ Multiplex real-time polymerase Same
Detection chain reaction
Intended Use The Xpert CT/NG Assay, Same
performed on the GeneXpert
Instrument Systems, is a
qualitative in vitro real-time PCR
test for the automated detection
and differentiation of genomic
DNA from Chlamydia
trachomatis (CT) and/or
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) to
aid in the diagnosis of chlamydial
and gonorrheal urogenital
disease. The assay may be used to
test the following specimens from
asymptomatic and symptomatic
individuals: female and male
urine, endocervical swab, and
patient-collected vaginal swab
(collected in a clinical setting).
Ancillary Collection Kits:
Xpert Vaginal/Endocervical
Specimen Collection Kit
The Cepheid Xpert
Vaginal/Endocervical Specimen
Collection Kit is designed to
collect, preserve, and transport
Chlamydia trachomatis,
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and
Trichomonas vaginalis DNA in
endocervical swab specimens
(collected by a clinician) and
patient-collected vaginal swab
specimens (collected in a clinical
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Similarities						
Item	Item		Device			Predicate Device	
			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG	
			(K173840)			(K121710)	
Regulation		866.3390			866.3390		
Device Class		II			II		
Technology/
Detection		Multiplex real-time polymerase
chain reaction			Same		
Intended Use		The Xpert CT/NG Assay,
performed on the GeneXpert
Instrument Systems, is a
qualitative in vitro real-time PCR
test for the automated detection
and differentiation of genomic
DNA from Chlamydia
trachomatis (CT) and/or
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) to
aid in the diagnosis of chlamydial
and gonorrheal urogenital
disease. The assay may be used to
test the following specimens from
asymptomatic and symptomatic
individuals: female and male
urine, endocervical swab, and
patient-collected vaginal swab
(collected in a clinical setting).
Ancillary Collection Kits:
Xpert Vaginal/Endocervical
Specimen Collection Kit
The Cepheid Xpert
Vaginal/Endocervical Specimen
Collection Kit is designed to
collect, preserve, and transport
Chlamydia trachomatis,
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and
Trichomonas vaginalis DNA in
endocervical swab specimens
(collected by a clinician) and
patient-collected vaginal swab
specimens (collected in a clinical			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate Device
Cepheid Xpert CT/NG Cepheid Xpert CT/NG
(K173840) (K121710)
setting) from symptomatic and
asymptomatic women prior to
analysis with the Xpert CT/NG
Assay and the Xpert TV Assay.
Xpert Urine Specimen Collection
Kit
The Cepheid Xpert Urine
Specimen Collection Kit is
designed to preserve and
transport Chlamydia trachomatis,
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and
Trichomonas vaginalis DNA in
first-catch male and female urine
specimens from symptomatic and
asymptomatic individuals prior to
analysis with the Xpert CT/NG
Assay and the Xpert TV Assay.
Assay Targets DNA from Chlamydia Same
trachomatis (CT) and/or
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG)
Specimen Type Urine (male and female), Same
endocervical swab, and patient-
collected vaginal swab (collected
in a clinical setting)
CT Analyte Targets CT genomic DNA Same
NG Analyte Targets NG genomic DNA Same
Collection Kit Urine collection kit Same
Swab collection kit
Nucleic Acid Extraction Yes Yes
Assay Controls Internal sample processing Same
control (SPC), sample adequacy
control (SAC), and probe check
control (PCC)
Assay Results Qualitative Same
Instrument System Cepheid GeneXpert Same
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Similarities						
Item	Item		Device			Predicate Device	
			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG	
			(K173840)			(K121710)	
		setting) from symptomatic and
asymptomatic women prior to
analysis with the Xpert CT/NG
Assay and the Xpert TV Assay.
Xpert Urine Specimen Collection
Kit
The Cepheid Xpert Urine
Specimen Collection Kit is
designed to preserve and
transport Chlamydia trachomatis,
Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and
Trichomonas vaginalis DNA in
first-catch male and female urine
specimens from symptomatic and
asymptomatic individuals prior to
analysis with the Xpert CT/NG
Assay and the Xpert TV Assay.					
Assay Targets		DNA from Chlamydia
trachomatis (CT) and/or
Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG)			Same		
Specimen Type		Urine (male and female),
endocervical swab, and patient-
collected vaginal swab (collected
in a clinical setting)			Same		
CT Analyte Targets		CT genomic DNA			Same		
NG Analyte Targets		NG genomic DNA			Same		
Collection Kit		Urine collection kit
Swab collection kit			Same		
Nucleic Acid Extraction		Yes			Yes		
Assay Controls		Internal sample processing
control (SPC), sample adequacy
control (SAC), and probe check
control (PCC)			Same		
Assay Results		Qualitative			Same		
Instrument System		Cepheid GeneXpert			Same		

--- Page 6 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate Device
Cepheid Xpert CT/NG Cepheid Xpert CT/NG
(K173840) (K121710)
Instrument Systems
Time to test results Approximately 90 minutes (1.5 Same
hours) to results.
Table 2: Differences Between Cepheid Xpert CT/NG and Predicate Device
Differences
Device Predicate Device
Item Cepheid Xpert CT/NG Cepheid Xpert CT/NG
(K173840) (K121710)
Limitation Xpert CT/NG Assay performance Xpert CT/NG Assay performance
has not been evaluated in patients has not been evaluated in
with a history of hysterectomy. pregnant women, or in patients
with a history of hysterectomy.
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
1. BS EN ISO 23640, In vitro diagnostic medical devices. Evaluation of Stability Testing of
in vitro Diagnostic Reagents, June 2015.
2. ASTM D4169-2005 and ASTM D4169-2009, Standard Practice for Performance Testing
of Shipping Containers and Systems.
3. CLSI EP5-A2, Evaluation of Precision Performance of Quantitative Measurement
Methods; Approved Guideline –Second Edition.
4. CLSI MM3-A2, Molecular Diagnostic Methods for Infectious Disease; Approved
Guideline –Second Edition.
5. Nucleic Acid Based In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for Detection of Microbial Pathogens -
Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, December 8, 2005.
6. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(k),
August 12, 2005.
7. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Class II Special Controls Guidance Document:
Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex Test Systems, March 10, 2005.
8. Guidance for Industry- Cybersecurity for Network Medical devices containing Off-the-
shelf (OTS) Software, issued January 14, 2005.
9. Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices - Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, May 11, 2005.
10. Guidance for Off-the-Shelf Software Use in Medical Devices; Final, September 9, 1999.
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Similarities						
Item	Item		Device			Predicate Device	
			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG	
			(K173840)			(K121710)	
		Instrument Systems					
Time to test results		Approximately 90 minutes (1.5
hours) to results.			Same		

[Table 2 on page 6]
	Differences							
				Device			Predicate Device	
Item	Item			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG			Cepheid Xpert CT/NG	
				(K173840)			(K121710)	
Limitation			Xpert CT/NG Assay performance
has not been evaluated in patients
with a history of hysterectomy.			Xpert CT/NG Assay performance
has not been evaluated in
pregnant women, or in patients
with a history of hysterectomy.		

--- Page 7 ---
L. Test Principle:
This assay amplifies Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae unique
chromosomal gene sequences using real time polymerase chain reaction technology. The
amplified DNA is detected by fluorogenic target-specific probe hybridization followed by 5’-
nuclease cleavage of the probe to release the fluorophore. The resulting fluorescent signal is
measured using the GeneXpert instrument system.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility and within laboratory precision studies were previously reviewed and
described in K121710.
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Not Applicable; this is a qualitative assay.
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Specimen stability and controls were previously reviewed and described in K121710.
d. Detection limit:
Limit of detection study was previously reviewed and described in K121710.
e. Analytical reactivity:
Inclusivity was previously reviewed and described in K121710.
f. Analytical specificity:
Cross-reactivity with relevant microorganisms and interference by potentially
interfering substances were previously reviewed and described in K121710.
g. Carryover/Cross-contamination:
Carryover/Cross-contamination study was previously reviewed and described in
K121710.
h. Assay cut-off:
Assay cut-off was previously reviewed and described in K121710.
7

--- Page 8 ---
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable.
3. Clinical studies:
The clinical data from K121710 was reanalyzed to evaluate the performance of the Xpert
CT/NG for urine specimens, endocervical swabs, and patient-collected vaginal swabs (in
the clinical setting) collected from pregnant women. Please refer to the decision summary
of K121710 for the details of the clinical study. The specimens included in K121710
clinical study were collected at 36 geographically diverse sites (including four sites
located in the United Kingdom) from consenting asymptomatic and symptomatic,
sexually active males and females seen at locations including, but not limited to:
OB/GYN, sexually transmitted disease (STD), teen, public health, and family planning
clinics. The samples were tested at 15 sites. The clinical study included 3781 eligible
female subjects; the current submission included reanalysis of data for 106 women
pregnant at the time of specimen collection amongst the 3781eligible women. Result
obtained by the Xpert CT/NG for each claimed specimen type (endocervical swab,
patient-collected vaginal swab, and female urine specimen) was evaluated against the
Patient Infected Status (PIS). The Xpert CT/NG showed a point estimate of 100% for
both sensitivity and specificity with endocervical, patient-collected vaginal swab, and
urine from pregnant females. Additionally, published clinicial literature was provided that
supported the use of the Xpert CT/NG in pregnant women.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Please refer to the decision summary of K121710.
N. Instrument Name:
GeneXpert Instrument Systems
· GeneXpert Dx System
· GeneXpert Infinity-48 System
· GeneXpert Infinity-80 System
8

--- Page 9 ---
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ____X____ or No _______
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ___X____
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ___X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification is performed with a barcode scanner or by manually entering the
information into GeneXpert system software.
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen handling is performed in either an Automation Mode or in a Manual Mode. In
the Automation Mode, test cartridges are placed on a conveyor belt, picked up by a
gantry, and introduced into an available module for processing.
5. Calibration:
Calibration is performed by Cepheid prior to installation. The user does not calibrate or
perform any serviceable functions on the instruments. A calibration check is
recommended on the annual basis. In the GeneXpert Operator’s Manual, the user is
instructed to contact Cepheid Technical Support for information about calibration.
6. Quality Control:
The integrity of the system is verified and controlled by specific hardware/software
checks during the cartridge load process, and during the test itself. The Xpert CT/NG
includes a sample adequacy control to verify that human DNA is present in the sample, a
sample processing control to verify adequate processing of sample, and a probe check
control to ensure adequate regaent rehydration, probe integrity, and dye stability.
9

--- Page 10 ---
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
N/A
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10