
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K180966
B. Purpose for Submission: To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
C. Measurand:
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, Enterobacter cloacae complex, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus
influenzae, Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae group, Moraxella catarrhalis, Proteus spp.,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus
pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma pneumoniae,
Adenovirus, Coronavirus, Human Metapneumovirus, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Influenza A, Influenza B,
Parainfluenza Virus, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, OXA-48-like, VIM, mecA/C and MREJ.
D. Type of Test:
Qualitative and quantitative nucleic acid amplification assay
E. Applicant:
BioFire Diagnostics, LLC
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 866.3965 - Device to detect and identify microorganisms and associated resistance marker nucleic acids directly in
respiratory specimens
2. Classification:
Class II (Special Controls)

--- Page 2 ---
3. Product code:
QBH
4. Panel:
83-Microbiology
H. Indications for use:
1. Indications for use(s):
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is a multiplexed nucleic acid test intended for use with FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or
FilmArray Torch systems for the simultaneous detection and identification of multiple respiratory viral and bacterial nucleic
acids, as well as select antimicrobial resistance genes, in sputum-like specimens (induced or expectorated sputum, or
endotracheal aspirates) or bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)-like specimens (BAL or mini-BAL) obtained from individuals
suspected of lower respiratory tract infection.
The following bacteria are reported semi-qualitatively with bins representing approximately 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 genomic
copies of bacterial nucleic acid per milliliter (copies/mL) of specimen, to aid in estimating relative abundance of nucleic acid
from these common bacteria within a specimen:
Bacteria reported with bins of 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 copies/mL
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus- Klebsiella oxytoca Serratia marcescens
baumannii complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex Klebsiella pneumoniae group Staphylococcus aureus
Escherichia coli Moraxella catarrhalis Streptococcus agalactiae
Haemophilus influenzae Proteus spp. Streptococcus pneumoniae
Klebsiella aerogenes Pseudomonas aeruginosa Streptococcus pyogenes
The following atypical bacteria, viruses, and antimicrobial resistance genes are reported qualitatively:
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae Legionella pneumophila Mycoplasma pneumoniae
Viruses
Adenovirus Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Parainfluenza Virus
Coronavirus Influenza A Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Human Metapneumovirus Influenza B
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
CTX-M NDM mecA/C and MREJ
IMP OXA-48-like
KPC VIM
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Bacteria reported with bins of 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 copies/mL
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus- Klebsiella oxytoca Serratia marcescens
baumannii complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex Klebsiella pneumoniae group Staphylococcus aureus
Escherichia coli Moraxella catarrhalis Streptococcus agalactiae
Haemophilus influenzae Proteus spp. Streptococcus pneumoniae
Klebsiella aerogenes Pseudomonas aeruginosa Streptococcus pyogenes

[Table 2 on page 2]
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae Legionella pneumophila Mycoplasma pneumoniae
Viruses
Adenovirus Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Parainfluenza Virus
Coronavirus Influenza A Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Human Metapneumovirus Influenza B
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
CTX-M NDM mecA/C and MREJ
IMP OXA-48-like
KPC VIM

--- Page 3 ---
The detection and identification of specific viral and bacterial nucleic acids, as well as the estimation of relative
abundance of nucleic acid from common bacterial analytes, within specimens collected from individuals exhibiting
signs and/or symptoms of a respiratory infection, aids in the diagnosis of lower respiratory infection if used in
conjunction with other clinical and epidemiological information. The results of this test should not be used as the sole
basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other patient management decisions.
Negative results in the setting of a respiratory illness may be due to infection with pathogens that are not detected by
this test, pathogens below the limit of detection, or in the case of bacterial analytes, present at levels below the lowest
reported 104 copies/mL bin. Detection of analytes does not rule out co-infection with other organisms: the agent(s)
detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel may not be the definite cause of disease. Additional laboratory testing
(e.g., bacterial and viral culture, immunofluorescence, and radiography) may be necessary when evaluating a patient
with possible lower respiratory tract infection.
Detection of bacterial nucleic acid may be indicative of colonizing or normal respiratory flora and may not indicate
the causative agent of pneumonia. Semi-quantitative bin (copies/mL) results generated by the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel are not equivalent to CFU/mL and do not consistently correlate with the quantity of bacterial analytes compared
to CFU/mL. For specimens with multiple bacteria detected, the relative abundance of nucleic acids (copies/mL) may
not correlate with the relative abundance of bacteria as determined by culture (CFU/mL). Clinical correlation is
advised to determine significance of semi- quantitative bin (copies/mL) for clinical management.
The antimicrobial resistance gene detected may or may not be associated with the agent(s) responsible for disease.
Negative results for these antimicrobial resistance gene assays do not indicate susceptibility to corresponding classes
of antimicrobials, as multiple mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance exist.
Antimicrobial resistance can occur via multiple mechanisms. A “Not Detected” result for a genetic marker of
antimicrobial resistance does not indicate susceptibility to associated antimicrobial drugs or drug classes. A
“Detected” result for a genetic marker of antimicrobial resistance cannot be definitively linked to the
microorganism(s) detected. Culture is required to obtain isolates for antimicrobial susceptibility testing, and
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results should be used in conjunction with culture results for determination of bacterial
susceptibility or resistance.
Due to the genetic similarity between human rhinovirus and enterovirus, the test cannot reliably differentiate them. A
positive Rhinovirus/Enterovirus result should be followed up using an alternate method (e.g., cell culture or sequence
analysis) if differentiation is required.
Culture is required to identify pathogens not detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, to further speciate analytes
in genus, complex, or group results if desired, to identify bacterial pathogens present below the 104 copies/mL bin if
desired, and for antimicrobial susceptibility testing.
3

--- Page 4 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
• For prescription use only
• For in vitro diagnostic use only
Limitations:
• For prescription use only.
• The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel has not been validated for testing of specimens other than unprocessed
sputum-like and BAL-like specimens.
• Contact or treatment of specimens with decontaminating agents (bleach, MycoPrep (NaOH and NALC), 2% NaOH
and 5% Oxalic acid) can cause false negative results (see Interference section).
• The performance of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel has not been established for monitoring treatment of infection.
• The effect of antibiotic treatment on test performance including semi-quantitative bin results has not been specifically
evaluated.
• Viral and bacterial nucleic acids may persist in vivo independent of organism viability. Detection of organism
target(s) does not imply that the corresponding organisms are infectious or are the causative agents for clinical
symptoms.
• The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results for bacteria are provided as a qualitative Detected/Not Detected
result with an associated semi-quantitative bin result of 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 copies of genomic nucleic acid
per milliliter of specimen. An exact quantitative value is not provided. The semi-quantitative (copies/mL) bin
result does not distinguish between nucleic acid from live or dead bacteria.
• A negative FilmArray Pneumonia Panel result does not exclude the possibility of viral or bacterial infection.
Negative test results may occur from the presence of sequence variants in the region targeted by the assay, the
presence of inhibitors, technical error, sample mix-up or an infection caused by an organism not detected by
the panel. Test results may also be affected by concurrent antiviral/antibacterial therapy or levels of organism
in the specimen that are below the limit of detection for the test or below the reportable level for bacterial
analytes. Negative results should not be used as the sole basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other patient
management decisions.
• Concomitant culture of specimens is required with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. Culture is needed for
recovery of isolates and antimicrobial susceptibility testing, as well as further speciation of genus, complex, or
group level results (if desired).
• Due to the genetic similarity between human rhinovirus and enterovirus, the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
cannot reliably differentiate them. A FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Detected
4

--- Page 5 ---
result should be followed-up using an alternate method (e.g. cell culture or sequence analysis) if
differentiation between the viruses is required.
• The in-silico analyses performed to predict amplification and detection of organisms and antimicrobial
resistance genes were based on a comparison of target gene sequences available in GenBank to FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel primer sequences. In-silico analyses were performed between January 2016 and January
2018. Entries of new sequences added to the database after these dates have not been evaluated. Additional
limitations on reactivity may be identified as new sequence data are deposited and/or as new sequence
variants emerge.
• Based on in-silico analysis, the MREJ assay (which is only reported if Staphylococcus aureus is detected and
the mecA/C assay is also positive) is predicted to have impaired reactivity or to be non-reactive with MREJ
types ix, xv and xviii, as well as types xix and xx (associated with methicillin-sensitive S. aureus; MSSA), and
MREJ sequences annotated from non-aureus Staphyloccoccus species and non-Staphyloccci such as Bacillus
cereus, Bacillus thuringiensis, Macrococcus caseolyticus, Clostridium acidurici, and Rummeliibacillus
stabekisii.
• Positive and negative predictive values are highly dependent on prevalence. False negative test results are more likely
during peak activity when prevalence of disease is high. False positive test results are more likely during periods
when prevalence is moderate to low.
• Performance characteristics for influenza A were established during the 2016-2017 influenza season. When other
novel influenza A viruses are emerging, performance characteristics may vary. If infection with a novel influenza A
virus is suspected based on current clinical and epidemiological screening criteria recommended by public health
authorities, specimens should be collected with appropriate infection control precautions for novel virulent influenza
viruses and sent to state or local health departments for testing. Viral culture should not be attempted in these cases
unless a BSL 3+ facility is available to receive and culture specimens.
• Due to the small number of positive specimens collected for certain organisms during the prospective clinical study,
performance characteristics for several analytes in one or both matrices were primarily established using archived
and/or contrived specimens as detailed in the Clinical Performance section.
4. Special instrument requirements:
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is performed on FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray Torch systems.
I. Device Description:
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is designed to simultaneously identify 26 potential pathogens of lower respiratory
tract infection (LRTI) and associated antimicrobial resistance (AMR) genes from a sputum-like (induced and
expectorated sputum as well as endotracheal aspirate, ETA) or bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)-like (BAL and mini-
BAL) specimens obtained from individuals with signs and/or symptoms of lower respiratory tract infection in a time
(~1 hour). The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is compatible with BioFire Diagnostics’ (BioFire) PCR-based in vitro
5

--- Page 6 ---
diagnostic FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, and FilmArray Torch systems for infectious disease testing. A specific software
module (i.e. FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouch module) is used to perform FilmArray Pneumonia Panel testing on
these systems.
A test is initiated by loading Hydration Solution into one port of the FilmArray pouch and a sputum-like or BAL-like
sample mixed with the provided Sample Buffer into the other port of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouch and
placing it in a FilmArray instrument. The pouch contains all the reagents required for specimen testing and analysis in
a freeze-dried format; the addition of Hydration Solution and Sample/Buffer Mix rehydrates the reagents. After the
pouch is prepared, the FilmArray Software guides the user though the steps of placing the pouch into the instrument,
scanning the pouch barcode, entering the sample identification, and initiating the run.
The FilmArray instrument contains a coordinated system of inflatable bladders and seal points, which act on the
pouch to control the movement of liquid between the pouch blisters. When a bladder is inflated over a reagent blister,
it forces liquid from the blister into connecting channels. Alternatively, when a seal is placed over a connecting
channel it acts as a valve to open or close a channel. In addition, electronically-controlled pneumatic pistons are
positioned over multiple plungers in order to deliver the rehydrated reagents into the blisters at the appropriate times.
Two Peltier devices control heating and cooling of the pouch to drive the PCR reactions and the melt curve analysis.
Nucleic acid extraction occurs within the FilmArray pouch using mechanical and chemical lysis followed by
purification using standard magnetic bead technology. After extracting and purifying nucleic acids from the
unprocessed sample, the FilmArray performs a nested multiplex PCR that is executed in two stages. During the first
stage, the FilmArray performs a single, large volume, highly multiplexed reverse transcription PCR (rt-PCR)
reaction. The products from first stage PCR are then diluted and combined with a fresh, primer-free master mix and a
fluorescent double stranded DNA binding dye (LC Green Plus, BioFire Diagnostics). The solution is then distributed
to each well of the array. Array wells contain sets of primers designed specifically to amplify sequences internal to
the PCR products generated during the first stage PCR reaction. The 2nd stage PCR, or nested PCR, is performed in
singleplex fashion in each well of the array. At the end of the 2nd stage PCR, the array is interrogated by melt curve
analysis for the detection of signature amplicons denoting the presence of specific targets. A digital camera placed in
front of the 2nd stage PCR captures fluorescent images of the PCR reactions and software interprets the data.
The FilmArray Software automatically interprets the results of each DNA melt curve analysis and combines the data
with the results of the internal pouch controls to provide a test result for each organism on the panel.
Materials provided in each FilmArray Pneumonia Panel kit:
Each kit contains sufficient reagents to test 30 samples (30-test kit; RFIT-ASY-0144) or 6 samples (6-test kit; RFIT-
ASY-0145):
• Individually-packaged FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouches
• Single-use (1.0 mL) Sample Buffer ampoules
6

--- Page 7 ---
• Single-use pre-filled (1.5 mL) Hydration Injection Vials (blue)
• Single-use Sample Injection Vials (red)
• Individually-packaged Transfer Pipettes
Materials required but not provided:
• FilmArray system including:
FilmArray 2.0 or FilmArrayTouch and accompanying software
-
FilmArray Pouch Loading Station
-
• 10% bleach solution
Interpretation of Results
When PCR2 is complete, the FilmArray instrument performs a DNA melting analysis on the PCR products and
measures the fluorescence signal generated in each well (for more information see appropriate FilmArray Operator’s
Manual). The FilmArray Software then performs several analyses and assigns a final assay result. The steps in the
analyses are described below.
Analysis of Melt Curves
The FilmArray Software evaluates the DNA melt curve for each well of the PCR2 array to determine if a PCR
product was present in that well. If the melt profile indicates the presence of a PCR product, then the analysis
software calculates the melting temperature (Tm) of the curve and compares it against the expected Tm range
for the assay. If the software determines that the Tm of the curve is within the assay-specific Tm range, the
melt curve is called positive. If the software determines that the Tm of the curve is not in the appropriate Tm
range, the melt curve is called negative.
Analysis of Replicates
Once positive melt curves have been identified, the software evaluates the replicates for each assay to
determine the assay result. For an assay to be called positive, two associated melt curves must be called
positive, and both Tms must be similar. Assays that do not meet these criteria are called negative.
Analysis of Assay Results for Bacteria
The assays in the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel for detection of bacteria that are reported semi-quantitatively
are designed to amplify genes that are present in single copies within the chromosome of the target bacterium
and are used to estimate genomic copies of bacterial nucleic acid per milliliter (copies/mL) of specimen. The
FilmArray Software calculates an approximate value for each gene target based on real-time PCR
amplification data relative to the QSM (internal reference of known quantity). Assays with no measurable
7

--- Page 8 ---
amplification or a value below 103.5 copies/mL are called negative. Assays with a value equal to or greater
than 103.5 copies/mL are called positive.
Organism and Antimicrobial Resistance Gene Interpretation
Each positive and negative assay result is interpreted by the FilmArray Software to provide results for the
identification of specific bacteria, atypical bacteria, viruses, and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) genes as
shown in the Table below. For most analytes detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, interpretations are
based on the result of a single assay. However, results for Staphylococcus aureus, Adenovirus, and the AMR
genes require interpretation based on more than one assay result, as discussed in the relevant sections below.
Bacteria – Quantitative Results Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex blaCTX-M (Extended spectrum beta-lactamase
( ))
Enterobacter cloacae complex blaIMP (Carbapenem resistance)
Escherichia coli blaKPC (Carbapenem resistance)
Haemophilus influenzae mecA/mecC and MREJ (Methicillin resistance)
Klebsiella aerogene blaNDM (Carbapenem resistance)
Klebsiella oxytoca blaOxa48-like (Carbapenem resistance)
Klebsiella pneumoniae group blaVIM (Carbapenem resistance)
Moraxella catarrhalis Viruses
Proteus spp. Adenovirus
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Coronavirus
Serratia marcescens Human Metapneumovirus
Streptococcus agalactiae Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus
Streptococcus pneumoniae Influenza A
Streptococcus pyogenes Influenza B
Bacteria (Atypical) - Qualitative Results Parainfluenza Virus
Chlamydia pneumoniae Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Legionella pneumophila
Mycoplasma pneumoniae
Interpretations and Semi-quantitative Bin Results for Bacteria
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel provides a Detected or Not Detected result as well as a semi-quantitative bin
result (104 copies/mL, 105 copies/mL, 106 copies/mL or ≥107 copies/mL) for most bacteria. The bin result
represents the approximate number of specific bacterial genomes in the specimen and is intended to provide a
simple assessment of relative quantities of different bacteria in a lower respiratory specimen based on a
molecular method.
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
Bacteria – Quantitative Results			Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex			blaCTX-M (Extended spectrum beta-lactamase
Enterobacter cloacae complex			( ))
blaIMP (Carbapenem resistance)
Escherichia coli			blaKPC (Carbapenem resistance)
Haemophilus influenzae			mecA/mecC and MREJ (Methicillin resistance)
Klebsiella aerogene			blaNDM (Carbapenem resistance)
Klebsiella oxytoca			blaOxa48-like (Carbapenem resistance)
Klebsiella pneumoniae group			blaVIM (Carbapenem resistance)
Moraxella catarrhalis			Viruses
Proteus spp.			Adenovirus
Pseudomonas aeruginosa			Coronavirus
Serratia marcescens			Human Metapneumovirus
Streptococcus agalactiae			Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus
Streptococcus pneumoniae			Influenza A
Streptococcus pyogenes			Influenza B
	Bacteria (Atypical) - Qualitative	Results	Parainfluenza Virus
Chlamydia pneumoniae			Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Legionella pneumophila			
Mycoplasma pneumoniae			

--- Page 9 ---
For bacteria, negative assays (no measurable amplification or value less than 103.5 copies/mL) are reported as
Not Detected. Positive assays are reported as Detected and a bin result is assigned based on the assay value.
Each bin is defined by discrete upper and lower limits spanning a 1-log range of values (see Table 1) such that
the bin result reflects the assay value within the nearest ±0.5-log.
Table 1: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Results for Bacteria
Assay Result
Reported Result and Bin Result
Negative OR <103.5 copies/mL Not Detected
Positive AND ≥103.5 – <104.5 copies/mL Detected 104 copies/mL
Positive AND ≥104.5 – <105.5 copies/mL Detected 105 copies/mL
Positive AND ≥105.5 – <106.5 copies/mL Detected 106 copies/mLD
Positive AND ≥106.5 copies/mL Detected ≥107 copies/mL
Staphylococcus aureus
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouch contains two different assays (Saureus1 and Saureus2) for the
detection of Staphylococcus aureus. The FilmArray Software interprets each of these assays independently (as
described above) and if one or a combination of the assays is positive, the result will be Staphylococcusaureus
Detected with the appropriate bin result. If both assays are negative the result will be Staphylococcusaureus
Not Detected.
Interpretations for Atypical Bacteria and Viruses
Results for most Atypical Bacteria and Viruses are reported qualitatively as Detected or Not Detected based
on an individual corresponding assay result. If the assay is positive the result will be Detected, and if the assay
is negative, the result will be Not Detected.
Adenovirus
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouch contains three different assays (Adenovirus2, Adenovirus3, and
Adenovirus7) for the detection of all species and serotypes of Adenovirus. The FilmArray Software interprets
each of these assays independently (as described above) and the results are combined as a final result for the
virus. If one or any combination of assays is positive, the result will be Adenovirus Detected. If all assays are
negative, the result will be Adenovirus Not Detected.
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
Assay Result		Reported Result and Bin Result	
Negative OR	<103.5 copies/mL	Not Detected	
Positive AND	≥103.5 – <104.5 copies/mL	Detected	104 copies/mL
Positive AND	≥104.5 – <105.5 copies/mL	Detected	105 copies/mL
Positive AND	≥105.5 – <106.5 copies/mL	Detected	106 copies/mLD
Positive AND	≥106.5 copies/mL	Detected	≥107 copies/mL

--- Page 10 ---
Interpretations for Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Genes
Results for AMR genes are also reported qualitatively (Detected/Not Detected) based on corresponding
assays, but only if an applicable bacterium (i.e. potential carriers of the AMR gene; Table 2) is also detected
(≥103.5 copies/mL) in the sample.
The results for each of the antimicrobial resistance genes will be listed as either:
Detected – when an applicable bacterium is detected AND the antimicrobial resistance gene assay(s) are
-
positive.
Not Detected – when an applicable bacterium is detected AND the antimicrobial resistance gene assay(s)
-
are negative.
N/A – when all applicable bacteria are Not Detected, regardless of the result for the antimicrobial
-
resistance gene assay(s).
Table 2: Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Genes and Applicable Organisms
AMR Gene Result Applicable Bacteria
mecA/C and MREJ Staphylococcus aureus
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex
CTX-M Escherichia coli
IMP Klebsiella aerogenes
KPC Klebsiella oxytoca
NDM Klebsiella pneumoniae group
VIM Proteus spp.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Serratia marcescens
Enterobacter cloacae complex
Escherichia coli
Klebsiella aerogenes
OXA-48-like Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae group
Proteus spp.
Serratia marcescens
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
AMR Gene Result	Applicable Bacteria
mecA/C and MREJ	Staphylococcus aureus
CTX-M
IMP
KPC
NDM
VIM	Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex
Escherichia coli
Klebsiella aerogenes
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae group
Proteus spp.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Serratia marcescens
OXA-48-like	Enterobacter cloacae complex
Escherichia coli
Klebsiella aerogenes
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae group
Proteus spp.
Serratia marcescens

--- Page 11 ---
Each AMR gene result is associated with a single corresponding assay except for the mecA/C and MREJ result,
which is dependent on both the mecA/C assay and the MREJ assay. Detection of both Staphylococcus aureus and
the mecA/C and MREJ markers is indicative of Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA).
Run Information
The Run Information section is displayed at the top of both pages of the test report. It provides information about
the sample and the run including: Sample ID, Protocol (sample type), pouch information (Pouch Type, Lot
Number, and Serial Number), Run Date, Run Status (Completed, Incomplete, Aborted, Instrument Error,
Instrument Communication Error, or Software Error), , the identity of the operator who performed the test, and
the instrument used to perform the test. Control results are reported as Passed, Failed, or Invalid. The Table 3
below provides additional information for each of the possible control field results.
Table 3: Interpretation of Controls Field on the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Test Report
Control
Explanation Action
Result
The run was successfully completed
AND None
Passed
Both pouch controls were Report the results provided on the test report.
successful.
The run was completed
BUT Repeat the test using a new pouch.
Failed At least one of the pouch controls If the error persists, contact Customer
(RNA Process Control and/or Technical Support for further instruction.
QSM) failed.
Note any error codes displayed during the run
and the Run Status field in the Run
The controls are invalid because the Information section of the report. Refer to the
run did not complete. appropriate FilmArray Operator’s Manual or
Invalid
(Typically this indicates a software contact Customer Technical Support for
or hardware error). further instruction.
Once the error is resolved, repeat the test or
repeat the test using another instrument.
Detection Summary
The Detection Summary section is displayed on the first page of the report and lists the Detected results under
each category (Bacteria, Antimicrobial Resistance Genes, Atypical Bacteria, and Viruses), including the semi-
quantitative ‘Bin (copies/mL)’ results for Bacteria. If there are no Detected results in a specific category, the
result shown is Detected: None.
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
	Control		Explanation	Action
	Result			
Passed			The run was successfully completed
AND
Both pouch controls were
successful.	None
Report the results provided on the test report.
Failed			The run was completed
BUT
At least one of the pouch controls
(RNA Process Control and/or
QSM) failed.	Repeat the test using a new pouch.
If the error persists, contact Customer
Technical Support for further instruction.
Invalid			The controls are invalid because the
run did not complete.
(Typically this indicates a software
or hardware error).	Note any error codes displayed during the run
and the Run Status field in the Run
Information section of the report. Refer to the
appropriate FilmArray Operator’s Manual or
contact Customer Technical Support for
further instruction.
Once the error is resolved, repeat the test or
repeat the test using another instrument.

--- Page 12 ---
Result Summary
The Results Summary is displayed on the second page of the report and provides a full list of test results for each
organism and antimicrobial resistance gene including the ‘Bin (copies/mL)’ result for Bacteria. Possible results
for each organism are Detected, Not Detected, Invalid, and N/A. The Table provides an explanation for each
interpretation and any follow-up necessary to obtain a final result.
Table 4: Reporting of Results and Required Actions
Result Explanation Action
The run was successfully completed
AND
Detected The pouch controls were successful (Passed) Report results.
AND
The assay(s) for the organism were POSITIVEa
The run was successfully completed
AND
Not Detected The pouch controls were successful (Passed) Report results.
AND
The assay(s) for the organism were NEGATIVEb
The pouch controls were not successful (Failed)
SeeTable 3
OR
Invalid for
The run was not successful
instruction.
(Run Status displayed as: Aborted, Incomplete, Instrument Error or Software Error)
The run was successfully completed
AND
N/A
The pouch controls were successful (Passed)
(Antimicrobial
AND Report results.
Resistance Genes
The assay(s) for the organism(s) associated with the antimicrobial resistance gene were
only
NEGATIVE so the results of the antimicrobial resistance gene are not applicable to the
test results.
a. For bacteria, the organism calculated value must be greater than or equal to 103.5 copies/mL for the assay to be POSITIVE.
b. For bacteria, a NEGATIVE assay result may indicate no amplification or amplification with an organism calculated value less than 103.5 copies/mL
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Curetis Unyvero LRT Application
12

[Table 1 on page 12]
Result	Explanation	Action
Detected	The run was successfully completed
AND
The pouch controls were successful (Passed)
AND
The assay(s) for the organism were POSITIVEa	Report results.
Not Detected	The run was successfully completed
AND
The pouch controls were successful (Passed)
AND
The assay(s) for the organism were NEGATIVEb	Report results.
Invalid	The pouch controls were not successful (Failed)
OR
The run was not successful
(Run Status displayed as: Aborted, Incomplete, Instrument Error or Software Error)	SeeTable 3
for
instruction.
N/A
(Antimicrobial
Resistance Genes
only	The run was successfully completed
AND
The pouch controls were successful (Passed)
AND
The assay(s) for the organism(s) associated with the antimicrobial resistance gene were
NEGATIVE so the results of the antimicrobial resistance gene are not applicable to the
test results.	Report results.

--- Page 13 ---
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
DEN170047
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item New Device: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Predicate: Curetis Unyvero LRT Application
(K180966) (DEN170047)
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is a multiplexed nucleic acid test The Unyvero LRT Application is a qualitative nucleic acid
intended for use with FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray multiplex test intended for the simultaneous detection and
Torch systems for the simultaneous detection and identification of identification of nucleic acid sequences from the following
multiple respiratory viral and bacterial nucleic acids, as well as microorganisms and antibiotic resistance markers in endotracheal
select antimicrobial resistance genes, in sputum-like specimens aspirates from adult hospitalized patients with suspected lower
(induced or expectorated sputum, or endotracheal aspirates) or respiratory tract infections.
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)-like specimens (BAL or mini-
BAL) obtained from individuals suspected of lower respiratory Mircoorganisms:
tract infection. Acinetobacter spp., Chlamydia pneumoniae, Citrobacter
freundii, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter cloacae complex,
The following bacteria are reported semi-qualitatively with bins Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella
representing approximately 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 genomic copies
pneumoniae, Klebsiella variicola, Legionella pneumophila,
of bacterial nucleic acid per milliliter (copies/mL) of specimen, to
Moraxella catarrhalis, Morganella morganii, Mycoplasma
aid in estimating relative abundance of nucleic acid from these
pneumoniae, Proteus spp, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
common bacteria within a specimen:
Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus,
Bacteria reported with bins of 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 copies/mL:
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Streptococcus pneumoniae
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus- baumannii complex, Enterobacter
cloacae complex, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae,
Indication for
Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae Associated Antimicrobial Resistance Markers:
Use group, Moraxella catarrhalis, Proteus spp., Pseudomonas ctx-M (blaCTX-M, subgroup 1 only), kpc (blaKPC), mecA,
aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus, ndm (blaNDM), oxa-23 (blaOXA-23), oxa-24 (blaOXA-24),
Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, oxa-48 (blaOXA-48), oxa-58 (blaOXA-58), tem (blaTEM),
Streptococcus pyogenes vim (blaVIM)
Atypical Bacteria:
Chlamydia pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma
The Unyvero LRT Application performed on the Unyvero System
pneumoniae
is indicated as an aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes: CTX-M, IMP, KPC, mecA/C +
infection in adult hospitalized patients with signs and symptoms of
MREJ, NDM, Oxa48-like, VIM
lower respiratory infection; results should be used in conjunction
Viruses: Adenovirus, Coronavirus, Human Metapneumovirus,
with other clinical and laboratory findings. As tracheal aspirates
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Influenza A, Influenza B,
commonly contain colonizing microorganisms, detection of
Parainfluenza virus,
Unyvero LRT microbial targets does not indicate that the
Respiratory Syncytial virus
microorganism is the cause of the disease. Unyvero positive
results do not rule out co-infection with microorganisms not
The detection and identification of specific viral and bacterial
detected by the Unyvero LRT Application. Negative results do not
nucleic acids, as well as the estimation of relative abundance of
preclude lower respiratory infection, as the causative agent may be
nucleic acid from common bacterial analytes, within specimens
a microorganism not detected by this test.
collected from individuals exhibiting signs and/or symptoms of a
13

[Table 1 on page 13]
Similarities		
Item	New Device: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel	Predicate: Curetis Unyvero LRT Application
	(K180966)	(DEN170047)
Indication for
Use	The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is a multiplexed nucleic acid test
intended for use with FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray
Torch systems for the simultaneous detection and identification of
multiple respiratory viral and bacterial nucleic acids, as well as
select antimicrobial resistance genes, in sputum-like specimens
(induced or expectorated sputum, or endotracheal aspirates) or
bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)-like specimens (BAL or mini-
BAL) obtained from individuals suspected of lower respiratory
tract infection.
The following bacteria are reported semi-qualitatively with bins
representing approximately 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 genomic copies
of bacterial nucleic acid per milliliter (copies/mL) of specimen, to
aid in estimating relative abundance of nucleic acid from these
common bacteria within a specimen:
Bacteria reported with bins of 104, 105, 106, or ≥107 copies/mL:
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus- baumannii complex, Enterobacter
cloacae complex, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae,
Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae
group, Moraxella catarrhalis, Proteus spp., Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus,
Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus pneumoniae,
Streptococcus pyogenes
Atypical Bacteria:
Chlamydia pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma
pneumoniae
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes: CTX-M, IMP, KPC, mecA/C +
MREJ, NDM, Oxa48-like, VIM
Viruses: Adenovirus, Coronavirus, Human Metapneumovirus,
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Influenza A, Influenza B,
Parainfluenza virus,
Respiratory Syncytial virus
The detection and identification of specific viral and bacterial
nucleic acids, as well as the estimation of relative abundance of
nucleic acid from common bacterial analytes, within specimens
collected from individuals exhibiting signs and/or symptoms of a	The Unyvero LRT Application is a qualitative nucleic acid
multiplex test intended for the simultaneous detection and
identification of nucleic acid sequences from the following
microorganisms and antibiotic resistance markers in endotracheal
aspirates from adult hospitalized patients with suspected lower
respiratory tract infections.
Mircoorganisms:
Acinetobacter spp., Chlamydia pneumoniae, Citrobacter
freundii, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter cloacae complex,
Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Klebsiella variicola, Legionella pneumophila,
Moraxella catarrhalis, Morganella morganii, Mycoplasma
pneumoniae, Proteus spp, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus,
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Streptococcus pneumoniae
Associated Antimicrobial Resistance Markers:
ctx-M (blaCTX-M, subgroup 1 only), kpc (blaKPC), mecA,
ndm (blaNDM), oxa-23 (blaOXA-23), oxa-24 (blaOXA-24),
oxa-48 (blaOXA-48), oxa-58 (blaOXA-58), tem (blaTEM),
vim (blaVIM)
The Unyvero LRT Application performed on the Unyvero System
is indicated as an aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract
infection in adult hospitalized patients with signs and symptoms of
lower respiratory infection; results should be used in conjunction
with other clinical and laboratory findings. As tracheal aspirates
commonly contain colonizing microorganisms, detection of
Unyvero LRT microbial targets does not indicate that the
microorganism is the cause of the disease. Unyvero positive
results do not rule out co-infection with microorganisms not
detected by the Unyvero LRT Application. Negative results do not
preclude lower respiratory infection, as the causative agent may be
a microorganism not detected by this test.

--- Page 14 ---
Similarities
respiratory infection, aids in the diagnosis of lower respiratory A negative result for any antibiotic resistance marker does not
infection if used in conjunction with other clinical and indicate that detected microorganisms are susceptible to applicable
epidemiological information. The results of this test should not be antimicrobial agents. Detected resistance markers cannot be
used as the sole basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other patient definitively linked to specific microorganisms, and may be present
management decisions. in organisms that are not detected by the Unyvero LRT
Application such as organisms present as colonizing or normal
Negative results in the setting of a respiratory illness may be due flora.
to infection with pathogens that are not detected by this test,
pathogens below the limit of detection, or in the case of bacterial Microbiology cultures of aspirates should be performed to obtain
analytes, present at levels below the lowest reported 104 copies/mL isolates for species identification and antimicrobial susceptibility
bin. Detection of analytes does not rule out co-infection with other testing, to differentiate quantities of identified microorganisms as
organisms: the agent(s) detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia well as normal flora present in the specimen and to identify
Panel may not be the definite cause of disease. Additional potential microorganisms not targeted by the Unyvero LRT
laboratory testing (e.g. bacterial and viral culture, Application.
immunofluorescence, and radiography) may be necessary when
evaluating a patient with possible lower respiratory tract infection.
Detection of bacterial nucleic acid may be indicative of colonizing
or normal respiratory flora and may not indicate the causative
agent of pneumonia. Semi-quantitative bin (copies/mL) results
generated by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel are not equivalent to
CFU/mL and do not consistently correlate with the quantity of
bacterial analytes compared to CFU/mL. For specimens with
multiple bacteria detected, the relative abundance of nucleic acids
(copies/mL) may not correlate with the relative abundance of
bacteria as determined by culture (CFU/mL). Clinical correlation
is advised to determine significance of semi-quantitative bin
(copies/mL) for clinical management.
The antimicrobial resistance gene detected may or may not be
associated with the agent(s) responsible for disease. Negative
results for these antimicrobial resistance gene assays do not
indicate susceptibility to corresponding classes of antimicrobials,
as multiple mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance exist.
Antimicrobial resistance can occur via multiple mechanisms. A
“Not Detected” result for a genetic marker of antimicrobial
resistance does not indicate susceptibility to associated
antimicrobial drugs or drug classes. A “Detected” result for a
genetic marker of antimicrobial resistance cannot be definitively
linked to the microorganism(s) detected. Culture is required to
obtain isolates for antimicrobial susceptibility testing, and
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results should be used in conjunction
with culture results for the determination of susceptibility or
resistance.
Due to the genetic similarity between human rhinovirus and
14

[Table 1 on page 14]
Similarities		
	respiratory infection, aids in the diagnosis of lower respiratory
infection if used in conjunction with other clinical and
epidemiological information. The results of this test should not be
used as the sole basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other patient
management decisions.
Negative results in the setting of a respiratory illness may be due
to infection with pathogens that are not detected by this test,
pathogens below the limit of detection, or in the case of bacterial
analytes, present at levels below the lowest reported 104 copies/mL
bin. Detection of analytes does not rule out co-infection with other
organisms: the agent(s) detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel may not be the definite cause of disease. Additional
laboratory testing (e.g. bacterial and viral culture,
immunofluorescence, and radiography) may be necessary when
evaluating a patient with possible lower respiratory tract infection.
Detection of bacterial nucleic acid may be indicative of colonizing
or normal respiratory flora and may not indicate the causative
agent of pneumonia. Semi-quantitative bin (copies/mL) results
generated by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel are not equivalent to
CFU/mL and do not consistently correlate with the quantity of
bacterial analytes compared to CFU/mL. For specimens with
multiple bacteria detected, the relative abundance of nucleic acids
(copies/mL) may not correlate with the relative abundance of
bacteria as determined by culture (CFU/mL). Clinical correlation
is advised to determine significance of semi-quantitative bin
(copies/mL) for clinical management.
The antimicrobial resistance gene detected may or may not be
associated with the agent(s) responsible for disease. Negative
results for these antimicrobial resistance gene assays do not
indicate susceptibility to corresponding classes of antimicrobials,
as multiple mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance exist.
Antimicrobial resistance can occur via multiple mechanisms. A
“Not Detected” result for a genetic marker of antimicrobial
resistance does not indicate susceptibility to associated
antimicrobial drugs or drug classes. A “Detected” result for a
genetic marker of antimicrobial resistance cannot be definitively
linked to the microorganism(s) detected. Culture is required to
obtain isolates for antimicrobial susceptibility testing, and
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results should be used in conjunction
with culture results for the determination of susceptibility or
resistance.
Due to the genetic similarity between human rhinovirus and	A negative result for any antibiotic resistance marker does not
indicate that detected microorganisms are susceptible to applicable
antimicrobial agents. Detected resistance markers cannot be
definitively linked to specific microorganisms, and may be present
in organisms that are not detected by the Unyvero LRT
Application such as organisms present as colonizing or normal
flora.
Microbiology cultures of aspirates should be performed to obtain
isolates for species identification and antimicrobial susceptibility
testing, to differentiate quantities of identified microorganisms as
well as normal flora present in the specimen and to identify
potential microorganisms not targeted by the Unyvero LRT
Application.

--- Page 15 ---
Similarities
enterovirus, the test cannot reliably differentiate them. A positive
Rhinovirus/Enterovirus result should be followed up using an
alternate method (e.g., cell culture or sequence analysis) if
differentiation is required.
Culture is required to identify pathogens not detected by the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, to further speciate analytes in genus,
complex, or group results if desired, to identify bacterial pathogens
present below the 104 copies/mL bin if desired, and for
antimicrobial susceptibility testing.
Technological
Multiplex nucleic acid Same
Principles
Test
Automated test interpretation and report generation. Same
Interpretation
Internal control (a synthetic gene without any homology to
Two controls are included in each reagent pouch to control
known sequences) is processed in every chamber in order to
Controls for sample processing and both stages of PCR and melt
verify the DNA purification, amplification, array
analysis.
hybridization, and detection
User
Moderate/Low Same
Complexity
Differences
New Device: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Predicate: Curetis Unyvero LRT Application
Item
(K180966) (DEN170047)
Sputum-like (induced or expectorated sputum,
Specimen
endotracheal aspirates) and BAL- like (BAL or mini-BAL) Endotracheal Aspirate specimens
Types
specimens
Analyte DNA/RNA DNA only
Detection with bin values (in 1-log rounded copies/mL
Result bins) for Bacteria
Qualitative for all analytes
types Qualitative for Atypical Bacteria, Antimicrobial Resistance
Genes, and Viruses
Instrumentation FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray Torch Unyvero System
Time to
About 1 hour About 4-5 hours
result
15

[Table 1 on page 15]
Similarities		
	enterovirus, the test cannot reliably differentiate them. A positive
Rhinovirus/Enterovirus result should be followed up using an
alternate method (e.g., cell culture or sequence analysis) if
differentiation is required.
Culture is required to identify pathogens not detected by the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, to further speciate analytes in genus,
complex, or group results if desired, to identify bacterial pathogens
present below the 104 copies/mL bin if desired, and for
antimicrobial susceptibility testing.	
Technological
Principles	Multiplex nucleic acid	Same
Test
Interpretation	Automated test interpretation and report generation.	Same
Controls	Two controls are included in each reagent pouch to control
for sample processing and both stages of PCR and melt
analysis.	Internal control (a synthetic gene without any homology to
known sequences) is processed in every chamber in order to
verify the DNA purification, amplification, array
hybridization, and detection
User
Complexity	Moderate/Low	Same

[Table 2 on page 15]
Differences		
	New Device: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel	Predicate: Curetis Unyvero LRT Application
Item		
	(K180966)	(DEN170047)
		
Specimen
Types	Sputum-like (induced or expectorated sputum,
endotracheal aspirates) and BAL- like (BAL or mini-BAL)
specimens	Endotracheal Aspirate specimens
Analyte	DNA/RNA	DNA only
Result
types	Detection with bin values (in 1-log rounded copies/mL
bins) for Bacteria
Qualitative for Atypical Bacteria, Antimicrobial Resistance
Genes, and Viruses	Qualitative for all analytes
Instrumentation	FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray Torch	Unyvero System
Time to
result	About 1 hour	About 4-5 hours

--- Page 16 ---
Differences
Store the Unyvero LRT Cartridge kit at 15°- 25°C. Do not
refrigerate.
Reagent Store the Unyvero Master Mix Tubes frozen at -20°C or
Room temperature
Storage below.
Thawed Master Mix tubes may be stored at 2-8°C for up to
7 days. Do not re-freeze
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced:
• Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff – Highly Multiplexed
Microbiological/Medical Countermeasure In Vitro Nucleic Acid Based Diagnostic Devices, (August 27,
2014)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Respiratory Viral
Panel Multiplex Nucleic Acid Assay (October 9, 2009)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Testing for
Detection and Differentiation of Influenza A Virus Subtypes Using Multiplex Nucleic Acid Assays
(October 9, 2009)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Testing for
Human Metapneumovirus (hMPV) Using Nucleic Acid Assays (October 9, 2009)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff- Statistical Guidance on Reporting Results from Studies
Evaluating Diagnostic Tests, (March 13, 2007)
• Guidance for Sponsors, Institutional Review Boards, and Food and Drug Administrative Staff –
Guidance on Informed Consent for In Vitro Diagnostic Device Studies Using Leftover Human
Specimens that are Not Individually Identifiable, (April 25, 2006)
• Evaluation of Stability of In Vitro Diagnostic Reagents; Approved Guideline, Clinical and Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI) – First Edition, EP25-A (September 23, 2009).
• Interference Testing in Clinical Chemistry; Approved Guideline, Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute (CLSI) – Second Addition, EP07-A2 (November, 2005).
• Molecular Diagnostic Methods for Infectious Diseases; Approved Guideline, Clinical and Laboratory
Standards Institute (CLSI), MM3-A2 (February 2006)
• User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance; Approved Guideline, Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI)– Second Edition, EP12-A2 (January, 2008)
• ISO 13485:2016/EN ISO 13485:2016, ‘Medical devices – Quality management systems – Requirements
for regulatory purposes’.
• ISO 14971:2007 ‘Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devices’.
• EN 13612:2002, ‘Performance evaluation of in vitro diagnostic devices’.
• EN 13641:2002, ‘Elimination or reduction of risk of infection related to in vitro diagnostic reagents’.
16

[Table 1 on page 16]
Differences		
Reagent
Storage	Room temperature	Store the Unyvero LRT Cartridge kit at 15°- 25°C. Do not
refrigerate.
Store the Unyvero Master Mix Tubes frozen at -20°C or
below.
Thawed Master Mix tubes may be stored at 2-8°C for up to
7 days. Do not re-freeze

--- Page 17 ---
• EN 62366:2008/IEC 62366-1:2015, ‘Medical Devices-Application of usability engineering to medical
devices’.
• EN ISO 23640:2015, ‘In vitro diagnostic medical devices – Evaluation of stability of in vitro diagnostic
reagents’.
• Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices, FDA
Guidance Document (May 11, 2005)
• Guidance for Industry, FDA Reviewers and Compliance on Off-The-Shelf Software Use in Medical
Devices (September 9, 1999)
• General Principle of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff (January 11,
2002)
• Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices (October 02,
2014)
• Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices (December 28, 2016)
• ISO 62304:2006, ‘Medical device software – Software life-cycle processes’ – IEC 62304:2006,
November 27, 2008.
• Use of Symbols on Labels and in Labeling of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional
Use, FDA Guidance Document (November 30, 2004)
• Guidance for Industry and FDA on Alternative to Certain Prescription Device Labeling Requirements
(January 1, 2000)
• ISO 15223-1:2016, ‘Medical Devices – Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labeling and
information to be supplied – Part 1: General requirements’.
• EN ISO 18113-1:2011, ‘In vitro diagnostic medical devices – Information supplied by the manufacturer
(labeling) – Part 1: Terms, definition and general requirements’.
• EN ISO 18113-2:2011, ‘In vitro diagnostic medical devices – Information supplied by the manufacturer
(labeling) – Part 2: In vitro diagnostic reagents for professional use’.
L. Test Principle:
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel pouch is a closed system disposable that stores all the necessary reagents for
sample preparation, reverse transcription, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and detection in order to isolate,
amplify, and detect nucleic acid from multiple lower respiratory pathogens within a single bronchoalveolar
lavage (BAL)-like (BAL or mini-BAL) or sputum-like (sputum or ETA) specimen. After sample collection, the
user injects hydration solution and sample combined with sample buffer into the pouch, places the pouch into a
FilmArray instrument, and starts a run. The entire run process takes about one hour. Additional detail can be
found in the appropriate FilmArray Operator’s Manual.
During a run, the FilmArray system:
• Lyses the sample by agitation (bead beading).
17

--- Page 18 ---
• Extracts and purifies all nucleic acids from the sample using magnetic bead technology.
• Performs nested multiplex PCR by:
First performing reverse transcription and a single, large volume, massively-multiplexed
o
reaction (PCR1)
Then performing multiple singleplex second-stage PCR reactions (PCR2) to amplify sequences
o
within the PCR1 products
• Uses endpoint melting curve data to detect and generate a result for each target on the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel array.
• For the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, the system also uses real-time amplification data from the assays
relative to a Quantified Standard Material (QSM) included in the pouch to provide an estimated value in
genomic copies per milliliter (copies/mL) for bacterial analytes.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Analytical Sensitivity:
A limit of detection (LoD) was established for atypical bacteria and viruses detected by the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel. LoD was estimated by testing dilutions of contrived BAL or sputum samples
containing known concentrations of organisms. Confirmation of LoD was achieved by testing at least
20 replicates per samples type on FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0 and FilmArray Torch systems (60
replicates total per sample type). LoD concentration was confirmed when the analyte was detected in at
least 95% of the replicates tested.
The confirmed LoD for each atypical bacterium or virus detected by the panel (including a LoD for
more than one isolate of the more genetically diverse viruses) is listed in Table 5. The LoD
concentration is based on quantification of each culture in viable units (TCID50/mL or CFU/mL) and a
corresponding molecular LoD concentration (DNA or RNA copies/mL) is provided based on
quantitative real-time or digital PCR.
18

--- Page 19 ---
Table 5: Summary of Limit of Detection (LoD) for FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Atypical
Bacteria and Viruses
Isolate LoD Concentrationa
Analyte Strain/Serotype/
Molecular (DNA or
Source ID Viable Units
RNA)
Atypical Bacteria
TW183
Chlamydia pneumoniae 5.0E-01 TCID50/mLb 3.3E+02 copies/mLb
ATCC VR-2282
Philadelphia-1
Legionella pneumophila 5.0E+02 CFU/mL 1.6E+03 copies/mL
ATCC 33152
Mycoplasma M129
7.5E+01 TCID50/mLb 3.5E+03 copies/mLb
pneumoniae Zeptometrix 0801579
Viruses
Species A
5.0E+01 TCID50/mL 9.2E+03 copies/mL
(A18) ATCC VR-19
Species B (B3)
1.0E+00 TCID50/mL 1.8E+03 copies/mL
Zeptometrix 0810062CF
Species C (C2)
5.0E+00 TCID50/mL 7.5E+03 copies/mL
ATCC VR-846
Adenovirus
Species D (D37)
2.5E-01 TCID50/mLb 2.9E+03 copies/mLb
Zeptometrix 0810119CF
Species E (E4)
1.0E-01 TCID50/mLb 3.5E+04 copies/mLb
Zeptometrix 0810070CF
Species F (F41)
5.0E+00 TCID50/mL 5.5E+03 copies/mL
ATCC VR-930
229E 5.0E-01 TCID50/mL 8.1E+01 copies/mL
HKU1
- 1.0E+04 copies/mL
Clinical Specimend
Coronavirus
NL63
2.5E+00 TCID50/mLc 5.4E+02 copies/mLc
BEI NR-470
OC43
5.0E+02 TCID50/mLc 9.3E+03 copies/mLc
ATCC VR-759
Human 16 Type A1
5.0E+01 TCID50/mL 5.9E+03 copies/mL
Metapneumovirus Zeptometrix 0810161CF
Rhinovirus Type 1A
1.5E+01 TCID50/mLb 6.6E+03 copies/mLb
Zeptometrix 810012CFN
Human Rhinovirus/
Echovirus 6
Enterovirus 1.0E+02 TCID50/mL 5.7E+02 copies/mL
Zeptometrix 0810076CF
19

[Table 1 on page 19]
			
	Isolate	LoD Concentrationa	
Analyte	Strain/Serotype/		
			Molecular (DNA or
	Source ID	Viable Units	
			RNA)
			
Atypical Bacteria			
Chlamydia pneumoniae	TW183
ATCC VR-2282	5.0E-01 TCID50/mLb	3.3E+02 copies/mLb
Legionella pneumophila	Philadelphia-1
ATCC 33152	5.0E+02 CFU/mL	1.6E+03 copies/mL
Mycoplasma
pneumoniae	M129
Zeptometrix 0801579	7.5E+01 TCID50/mLb	3.5E+03 copies/mLb
Viruses			
Adenovirus	Species A
(A18) ATCC VR-19	5.0E+01 TCID50/mL	9.2E+03 copies/mL
	Species B (B3)
Zeptometrix 0810062CF	1.0E+00 TCID50/mL	1.8E+03 copies/mL
	Species C (C2)
ATCC VR-846	5.0E+00 TCID50/mL	7.5E+03 copies/mL
	Species D (D37)
Zeptometrix 0810119CF	2.5E-01 TCID50/mLb	2.9E+03 copies/mLb
	Species E (E4)
Zeptometrix 0810070CF	1.0E-01 TCID50/mLb	3.5E+04 copies/mLb
	Species F (F41)
ATCC VR-930	5.0E+00 TCID50/mL	5.5E+03 copies/mL
Coronavirus	229E	5.0E-01 TCID50/mL	8.1E+01 copies/mL
	HKU1
Clinical Specimend	-	1.0E+04 copies/mL
	NL63
BEI NR-470	2.5E+00 TCID50/mLc	5.4E+02 copies/mLc
	OC43
ATCC VR-759	5.0E+02 TCID50/mLc	9.3E+03 copies/mLc
Human
Metapneumovirus	16 Type A1
Zeptometrix 0810161CF	5.0E+01 TCID50/mL	5.9E+03 copies/mL
Human Rhinovirus/
Enterovirus	Rhinovirus Type 1A
Zeptometrix 810012CFN	1.5E+01 TCID50/mLb	6.6E+03 copies/mLb
	Echovirus 6
Zeptometrix 0810076CF	1.0E+02 TCID50/mL	5.7E+02 copies/mL

--- Page 20 ---
Isolate LoD Concentrationa
Analyte Strain/Serotype/
Molecular (DNA or
Source ID Viable Units
RNA)
H1N1pdm09
A/SwineNY/03/09 2.5E+00 TCID50/mLc 1.7E+03 copies/mLc
Zeptometrix 0810249CF
Influenza A
H3N2
A/Port Chalmers/1/73 1.0E+00 TCID50/mLb 2.1E+02 copies/mLb
ATCC VR-810
B/FL/04/06 Zeptometrix
Influenza B 5.0E+00 TCID50/mLc 4.2E+02 copies/mLc
0810255CF
Type 1
2.5E+01 TCID50/mL 5.2E+03 copies/mL
Zeptometrix 0810014CF
Type 2
2.5E+01 TCID50/mLc 1.5E+03 copies/mLc
Zeptometrix 0810015CF
Parainfluenza Virus Type 3
2.5E+01 TCID50/mLc 3.8E+02 copies/mLc
Zeptometrix 0810016CF
Type 4A
2.5E+02 TCID50/mL 8.1E+03 copies/mL
Zeptometrix 0810060CF
Respiratory Syncytial Type A
1.0E+00 TCID50/mL 4.3E+02 copies/mL
Virus Zeptometrix 0810040ACF
a. The listed concentration was confirmed with ≥95% detection on each FilmArray system in artificial BAL (aBAL) and/or sputum.
b. LoD confirmation (≥95% detection) was achieved at a 2 to 5-fold lower concentration in aBAL.
c. LoD confirmation (≥95% detection) was achieved at a 2 to 5-fold lower concentration in sputum.
d. No cultured isolates of Coronavirus HKU1 were available for testing.
For bacteria, the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel reports a Detected result when the estimated bacterial
nucleic acid abundance is ≥103.5 copies/mL, and the panel reports a Not Detected if there is no
amplification or the estimated bacterial nucleic acid abundance is <103.5 copies/mL. No assay-specific
LoD concentrations were determined for the bacterial analytes, however, each assay was determined to
be linear (slope ≈ 1.0 and coefficient of determination (Adj R2) >0.95) and estimates of nucleic acid
abundance were determined to be accurate within 0.5 log copies/mL when compared to an input
10
concentration determined by digital PCR.
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) genes are reported as Detected when an applicable bacterium is
detected and the assay for the AMR gene is positive. No AMR gene assay-specific LoD concentrations
were determined for the AMR gene, but positive AMR gene assay results were recorded in ≥95% of 90
replicates of applicable bacteria tested at concentrations of 1.0E+04 copies/mL or less in the precision
evaluation (see Precision below).
20

[Table 1 on page 20]
			
	Isolate	LoD Concentrationa	
Analyte	Strain/Serotype/		
			Molecular (DNA or
	Source ID	Viable Units	
			RNA)
			
Influenza A	H1N1pdm09
A/SwineNY/03/09
Zeptometrix 0810249CF	2.5E+00 TCID50/mLc	1.7E+03 copies/mLc
	H3N2
A/Port Chalmers/1/73
ATCC VR-810	1.0E+00 TCID50/mLb	2.1E+02 copies/mLb
Influenza B	B/FL/04/06 Zeptometrix
0810255CF	5.0E+00 TCID50/mLc	4.2E+02 copies/mLc
Parainfluenza Virus	Type 1
Zeptometrix 0810014CF	2.5E+01 TCID50/mL	5.2E+03 copies/mL
	Type 2
Zeptometrix 0810015CF	2.5E+01 TCID50/mLc	1.5E+03 copies/mLc
	Type 3
Zeptometrix 0810016CF	2.5E+01 TCID50/mLc	3.8E+02 copies/mLc
	Type 4A
Zeptometrix 0810060CF	2.5E+02 TCID50/mL	8.1E+03 copies/mL
Respiratory Syncytial
Virus	Type A
Zeptometrix 0810040ACF	1.0E+00 TCID50/mL	4.3E+02 copies/mL

--- Page 21 ---
b. Reproducibility:
A multisite reproducibility study of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel was performed with contrived
BAL samples over multiples days at three laboratory locations (sites) on a combination of FilmArray,
FilmArray 2.0 and FilmArray Torch systems. Testing incorporated a range of potential sources of
variability, including run-to-run, day-to-day, and site-to-site variability, which also encompassed
different operators, instruments, systems and reagent lots for a total of 30 tests per system and 90 total
replicates per sample/concentration.
Evaluation of the reproducibility of Detected/Not Detected results for atypical bacteria and viruses
included samples containing combinations of five different analytes, at Negative, Low Positive
(1×LoD), and Moderate Positive (3×LoD) concentrations. Negative results were obtained from up to 24
additional samples (see evaluation of precision for bacterial analytes below) that were not spiked with
the analyte.
A summary of results (percent (%) agreement with the expected Detected or Not Detected result) for
each atypical bacterium and virus (by site and system) is provided Table 6 below.
Table 6: Reproducibility of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Atypical Bacteria and Virus Results
Agreement with Expected Result
Expected FilmArray FilmArray All Sites [95%
Analyte Concentration Tested FilmArray
Result 2.0 Torch CI]
Site A Site B Site C
Atypical Bacteria
None 2,340/2,340
Chlamydia 780/780 780/780 780/780
(No Analyte) Not Detected 100%
pneumoniae 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
Moderate Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
3× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
1.5E+03 CFU/mL [96.0%-100%]
Low Positive 90/90
Legionella pneumophila Philadelphia-1 30/30 30/30 30/30
1× LoD Detected 100%
ATCC 33152 100% 100% 100%
5.0E+02 CFU/mL [96.0%-100%]
2,160/2,160
None 720/720 720/720 720/720
Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
2,340/2,340
None 780/780 780/780 780/780
Mycoplasma pneumoniae Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
Viruses
21

[Table 1 on page 21]
			Agreement with Expected Result			
		Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	All Sites [95%
Analyte	Concentration Tested		FilmArray			
		Result		2.0	Torch	CI]
						
			Site A	Site B	Site C	
Atypical Bacteria						
	None	Not Detected	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	2,340/2,340
100%
[99.8%-100%]
Chlamydia						
	(No Analyte)					
pneumoniae						
						
						
	Moderate Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	3× LoD					
	1.5E+03 CFU/mL					
	Low Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
Legionella pneumophila Philadelphia-1						
	1× LoD					
ATCC 33152						
	5.0E+02 CFU/mL					
						
		Not Detected	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	2,160/2,160
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
	(No Analyte)					
						
		Not Detected	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	2,340/2,340
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
Mycoplasma pneumoniae						
	(No Analyte)					
						
						
Viruses						

--- Page 22 ---
Agreement with Expected Result
Expected FilmArray FilmArray All Sites [95%
Analyte Concentration Tested FilmArray
Result 2.0 Torch CI]
Site A Site B Site C
Moderate Positive 3× 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
3.0E+00 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
Adenovirus Low Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
Species B Serotype 3 ZeptoMetrix 1× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
0810062CF 1.0E+00 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
2,160/2,160
None 720/720 720/720 720/720
Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
2,336/2,340
None 780/780 776/780 780/780
Coronavirus Not Detected 99.8%
(No Analyte) 100% 99.5% 100%
[99.6%-100%]
Moderate Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
3× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
1.5E+02 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
Low Positive 89/90
Human Metapneumovirus 30/30 29/30 30/30
1× LoD Detected 98.9%
16 Type A1 ZeptoMetrix 0810161CF 100% 96.7% 100%
5.0E+01 TCID /mL [94.0%-100%]
50
2,160/2,160
None 720/720 720/720 720/720
Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
2,338/2,340
Human Rhinovirus/ None 779/780 780/780 779/780
Not Detected 99.9%
Enterovirus (No Analyte) 99.9% 100% 99.9%
[99.7%-100%]
Moderate Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
3× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
1.5E+00 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
Influenza A Low Positive 89/90
30/30 29/30 30/30
H3N2 1× LoD Detected 98.9%
100% 96.7% 100%
A/Port Chalmers/1/73 ATCC VR-810 0.5E-01 TCID /mL [94.0%-100%]
50
2,160/2,160
None 720/720 720/720 720/720
Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
2,340/2,340
None 780/780 780/780 780/780
Influenza B Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
Moderate Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
3× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
Parainfluenza Virus 7.5E+01 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
Type 2 ZeptoMetrix 0810015CF Low Positive 90/90
30/30 30/30 30/30
1× LoD Detected 100%
100% 100% 100%
2.5E+01 TCID /mL [96.0%-100%]
50
22

[Table 1 on page 22]
			Agreement with Expected Result			
		Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	All Sites [95%
Analyte	Concentration Tested		FilmArray			
		Result		2.0	Torch	CI]
						
			Site A	Site B	Site C	
	Moderate Positive 3×	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	LoD					
	3.0E+00 TCID /mL
50					
Adenovirus	Low Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
Species B Serotype 3 ZeptoMetrix	1× LoD					
0810062CF	1.0E+00 TCID /mL
50					
		Not Detected	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	2,160/2,160
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
	(No Analyte)					
						
		Not Detected	780/780
100%	776/780
99.5%	780/780
100%	2,336/2,340
99.8%
[99.6%-100%]
	None					
Coronavirus						
	(No Analyte)					
						
						
	Moderate Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	3× LoD					
	1.5E+02 TCID /mL
50					
	Low Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	29/30
96.7%	30/30
100%	89/90
98.9%
[94.0%-100%]
Human Metapneumovirus						
	1× LoD					
16 Type A1 ZeptoMetrix 0810161CF						
	5.0E+01 TCID /mL
50					
						
		Not Detected	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	2,160/2,160
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
	(No Analyte)					
						
		Not Detected	779/780
99.9%	780/780
100%	779/780
99.9%	2,338/2,340
99.9%
[99.7%-100%]
Human Rhinovirus/	None					
Enterovirus	(No Analyte)					
						
	Moderate Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	3× LoD					
	1.5E+00 TCID /mL
50					
Influenza A	Low Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	29/30
96.7%	30/30
100%	89/90
98.9%
[94.0%-100%]
H3N2	1× LoD					
A/Port Chalmers/1/73 ATCC VR-810	0.5E-01 TCID /mL
50					
		Not Detected	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	2,160/2,160
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
	(No Analyte)					
						
		Not Detected	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	2,340/2,340
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
Influenza B						
	(No Analyte)					
						
						
	Moderate Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	3× LoD					
Parainfluenza Virus	7.5E+01 TCID /mL
50					
Type 2 ZeptoMetrix 0810015CF	Low Positive	Detected	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	30/30
100%	90/90
100%
[96.0%-100%]
	1× LoD					
	2.5E+01 TCID /mL
50					

--- Page 23 ---
Agreement with Expected Result
Expected FilmArray FilmArray All Sites [95%
Analyte Concentration Tested FilmArray
Result 2.0 Torch CI]
Site A Site B Site C
2,160/2,160
None 720/720 720/720 720/720
Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
2,340/2,340
None 780/780 780/780 780/780
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Not Detected 100%
(No Analyte) 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
Precision for bacterial analytes was measured at each concentration as 1) precision of bin results and 2)
reproducibility of analyte detection. When a sample containing one or more bacteria is tested
repeatedly, the precision of the bin results (probability that each replicate will receive the same bin
result) will vary based on the concentration of nucleic acid measured and the relation of that
concentration to the limits of each bin. Bin precision may be as low as 50% for values at a bin limit and
precision will increase (up to 90% or higher) as the distance of the measured value from a bin limit
increases. The precision of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin results will follow the model illustrated in
Figure 1:
• >90% at a bin center (Scenario 1)
• ~60 – 90% between a bin limit and bin center (Scenario 2)
• ~50% at bin limits (Scenario 3)
23

[Table 1 on page 23]
			Agreement with Expected Result			
		Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	All Sites [95%
Analyte	Concentration Tested		FilmArray			
		Result		2.0	Torch	CI]
						
			Site A	Site B	Site C	
		Not Detected	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	720/720
100%	2,160/2,160
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
	(No Analyte)					
						
		Not Detected	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	780/780
100%	2,340/2,340
100%
[99.8%-100%]
	None					
Respiratory Syncytial Virus						
	(No Analyte)					
						
						

--- Page 24 ---
Top: The probability (0.0 – 1.0) of the same bin results for each replicate tested varies based on proximity
of the measured value to a bin limit.
Bottom: Expected distribution of bin results at different mean measured values.
Samples containing bacteria and corresponding antimicrobial (AMR) genes were tested at six different
concentrations over the reportable range and below. A summary of the bin precision (percent (%) of
replicates reported in each bin) and the reproducibility of detection is shown at each concentration
tested in Table 7 below.
Table 7: Reproducibility of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bacterial Bin Results on FilmArray,
FilmArray 2.0 and FilmArray TorchGrey shading indicates the expected bin results based on the analyte concentration
and bold font indicates the bin with the greatest percentage of results at each concentration.
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
90/90 90/90
Acinetobacter 7.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
baumannii
87/90 3/90 90/90
(NDM-1) 6.5 - - -
(96.7%) (3.3%) 100%
24

[Table 1 on page 24]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	7.5	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
Acinetobacter							
		(100%)					
baumannii							
	6.5	87/90	3/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
(NDM-1)							
		(96.7%)	(3.3%)				
							

--- Page 25 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
AR- 82/90 8/90 90/90
5.5 - - -
BANK#0033 (91.1%) (8.9%) 100%
1/90 80/90 9/90 90/90
4.5 - -
(1.1%) (88.9%) (10.0%) 100%
1/90 74/90 15/90 75/90
3.5 - -
(1.1%) (82.2%) (16.7%) 83.3%
1/90 89/90 1/90
2.5 - - -
(1.1%) (98.9%) 1.1%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
65/90 25/90 90/90
6.5 - - -
(72.2%) (27.8%) 100%
52/90 38/90 90/90
5.5 - - -
(57.8%) (42.2%) 100%
Enterobacter
38/90 51/90 1/90 89/90
aerogenes 4.5 - -
(42.2%) (56.7%) (1.1%) 98.9%
ATCC 13048
33/90 57/90 33/90
3.5 - - -
(36.7%) (63.3%) 36.7%
1/90 89/90 1/90
2.5 - - -
(1.1%) (98.9%) 1.1%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
4/90 86/90 90/90
6.0 - - -
(4.4%) (95.6%) 100%
6/90 80/90 4/90 86/90
Enterobacter 5.0 - -
(6.7%) (88.9%) (4.4%) 95.6%
cloacae
6/90 83/90 1/90 89/90
(VIM) 4.0 - -
(6.7%) (92.2%) (1.1%) 98.9%
AR-
1/90 4/90 85/90 5/90
BANK#0154 3.0 - -
(1.1%) (4.4%) (94.4%) 5.6%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None (No 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
25

[Table 1 on page 25]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
AR-	5.5	-	82/90	8/90	-	-	90/90
100%
BANK#0033			(91.1%)	(8.9%)			
	4.5	-	1/90	80/90	9/90	-	90/90
100%
			(1.1%)	(88.9%)	(10.0%)		
	3.5	-	-	1/90	74/90	15/90	75/90
83.3%
				(1.1%)	(82.2%)	(16.7%)	
	2.5	-	-	-	1/90	89/90	1/90
1.1%
					(1.1%)	(98.9%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.5	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.5	65/90	25/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(72.2%)	(27.8%)				
	5.5	-	52/90	38/90	-	-	90/90
100%
			(57.8%)	(42.2%)			
Enterobacter							
	4.5	-	-	38/90	51/90	1/90	89/90
98.9%
aerogenes							
				(42.2%)	(56.7%)	(1.1%)	
ATCC 13048							
	3.5	-	-	-	33/90	57/90	33/90
36.7%
							
					(36.7%)	(63.3%)	
	2.5	-	-	-	1/90	89/90	1/90
1.1%
					(1.1%)	(98.9%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	4/90	86/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(4.4%)	(95.6%)				
	5.0	-	6/90	80/90	-	4/90
(4.4%)	86/90
95.6%
Enterobacter							
			(6.7%)	(88.9%)			
cloacae							
	4.0	-	-	6/90	83/90	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
(VIM)							
				(6.7%)	(92.2%)		
AR-							
	3.0	-	-	1/90	4/90	85/90	5/90
5.6%
BANK#0154							
				(1.1%)	(4.4%)	(94.4%)	
							
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None (No
Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	

--- Page 26 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
7/90 82/90 89/90
6.0 - - 1/90 (1.1%)
(7.8%) (91.1%) 98.9%
12/90 78/90 90/90
5.0 - - -
(13.3%) (86.7%) 100%
Escherichia coli
12/90 77/90 1/90 89/90
(IMP) 4.0 - -
(13.3%) (85.6%) (1.1%) 98.9%
GRE 1062016
1/90 15/90 74/90 16/90
3.0 - -
(1.1%) (16.7%) (82.2%) 17.8%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None (No 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
89/90 1/90 90/90
7.0 - - -
(98.9%) (1.1%) 100%
35/90 55/90 90/90
6.0 - - -
(48.9%) (61.1%) 100%
49/90 40/90 1/90 90/90
5.0 - -
(54.4%) (44.4%) (1.1%) 100%
Haemophilus
41/90 49/90 90/90
influenzae 4.0 - - -
(45.6%) (54.4%) 100%
ATCC 10211
42/90 48/90 42/90
3.0 - - -
(46.7%) (53.3%) 46.7%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None (No 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
90/90 90/90
6.5 - - - -
Klebsiella (100%) 100%
oxytoca 1/90 84/90 3/90 2/90 88/90
5.5 -
(CTX-M) (1.1%) (93.3%) (3.3%) (2.2%) 97.8%
GRE 1254054 89/90 1/90 89/90
4.5 - - -
(98.9%) (1.1%) 98.9%
90/90 90/90
3.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
26

[Table 1 on page 26]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	7/90	82/90	-	-	1/90 (1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
		(7.8%)	(91.1%)				
	5.0	-	12/90	78/90	-	-	90/90
100%
			(13.3%)	(86.7%)			
Escherichia coli							
	4.0	-	-	12/90	77/90	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
(IMP)							
				(13.3%)	(85.6%)		
GRE 1062016							
	3.0	-	-	1/90	15/90	74/90	16/90
17.8%
							
				(1.1%)	(16.7%)	(82.2%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None (No
Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.0	89/90	1/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(98.9%)	(1.1%)				
	6.0	35/90	55/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(48.9%)	(61.1%)				
	5.0	-	49/90	40/90	1/90
(1.1%)	-	90/90
100%
			(54.4%)	(44.4%)			
Haemophilus							
	4.0	-	-	41/90	49/90	-	90/90
100%
influenzae							
				(45.6%)	(54.4%)		
ATCC 10211							
	3.0	-	-	-	42/90	48/90	42/90
46.7%
							
					(46.7%)	(53.3%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None (No
Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.5	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.5	90/90		-	-	-	90/90
100%
			-				
Klebsiella		(100%)					
							
oxytoca	5.5	1/90	84/90	3/90	-	2/90
(2.2%)	88/90
97.8%
(CTX-M)		(1.1%)	(93.3%)	(3.3%)			
GRE 1254054	4.5	-	-	89/90		1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
					-		
				(98.9%)			
							
	3.5	-	-	-	90/90		90/90
100%
						-	
					(100%)		
							

--- Page 27 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
1/90 1/90 88/90 2/90
2.5 - -
(1.1%) (1.1%) (97.8%) 2.2%
None (No 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.00 - - - -
(100%) 100%
12/90 78/90 90/90
6.00 - - -
(13.3%) (86.7%) 100%
15/90 75/90 90/90
Klebsiella 5.00 - - -
(16.7%) (83.3%) 100%
pneumoniae
23/90 66/90 1/90 89/90
(KPC) 4.00 - -
(25.6%) (73.3%) (1.1%) 98.9%
AR-
15/90 75/90 15/90
BANK#0097 3.00 - - -
(16.7%) (83.3%) 16.7%
90/90 0/90
2.00 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None (No 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
26/90 64/90 90/90
6.0 - - -
(28.9%) (71.1%) 100%
6/90 83/90 1/90 90/90
5.0 - -
(6.7%) (92.2%) (1.1%) 100%
Moraxella
4/90 86/90 90/90
catarrhalis 4.0 - - -
(4.4%) (95.6%) 100%
ATCC 8176
4/90 86/90 4/90
3.0 - - -
(4.4%) (95.6%) 4.4%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
88/90 2/90 88/90
7.0 - - -
(97.8%) (2.2%) 97.8%
Proteus
27/90 63/90 90/90
mirabilis 6.0 - - -
(30.0%) (70.0%) 100%
ATCC 35659
26/90 64/90 90/90
5.0 - - -
(28.9%) (71.1%) 100%
27

[Table 1 on page 27]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	2.5	-	-	1/90	1/90
(1.1%)	88/90	2/90
2.2%
				(1.1%)		(97.8%)	
	None (No
Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.00	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.00	12/90	78/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(13.3%)	(86.7%)				
	5.00	-	15/90	75/90	-	-	90/90
100%
Klebsiella							
			(16.7%)	(83.3%)			
pneumoniae							
	4.00	-	-	23/90	66/90	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
(KPC)							
				(25.6%)	(73.3%)		
AR-							
	3.00	-	-	-	15/90	75/90	15/90
16.7%
BANK#0097							
					(16.7%)	(83.3%)	
							
	2.00	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None (No
Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	26/90	64/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(28.9%)	(71.1%)				
	5.0	-	6/90	83/90	1/90
(1.1%)	-	90/90
100%
			(6.7%)	(92.2%)			
Moraxella							
	4.0	-	-	4/90	86/90	-	90/90
100%
catarrhalis							
				(4.4%)	(95.6%)		
ATCC 8176							
	3.0	-	-	-	4/90	86/90	4/90
4.4%
							
					(4.4%)	(95.6%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.0	88/90	-	-	-	2/90
(2.2%)	88/90
97.8%
		(97.8%)					
Proteus							
	6.0	27/90	63/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
mirabilis							
		(30.0%)	(70.0%)				
ATCC 35659							
	5.0	-	26/90	64/90	-	-	90/90
100%
							
			(28.9%)	(71.1%)			

--- Page 28 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
14/90 75/90 1/90 89/90
4.0 - -
(15.6%) (83.3%) (1.1%) 98.9%
28/90 62/90 28/90
3.0 - - -
(31.1%) (68.9%) 31.1%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
20/90 70/90 90/90
6.0 - - -
(22.2%) (77.8%) 100%
24/90 66/90 90/90
5.0 - - -
(26.7%) (73.3%) 100%
Pseudomonas
16/90 74/90 90/90
aeruginosa 4.0 - - -
(17.8%) (82.2%) 100%
ATCC 10145
14/90 76/90 14/90
3.0 - - -
(15.6%) (84.4%) 15.6%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
2/90 88/90 90/90
6.0 - - -
(2.2%) (97.8%) 100%
7/90 83/90 90/90
5.0 - - -
Serratia (7.8%) (92.2%) 100%
marcescens 6/90 83/90 1/90 89/90
4.0 - -
(OXA-48-like) (6.7%) (92.2%) (1.1%) 98.9%
GRE 1659005 6/90 84/90 6/90
3.0 - - -
(6.7%) (93.3%) 6.7%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
28

[Table 1 on page 28]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	4.0	-	-	14/90	75/90
(83.3%)	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
				(15.6%)			
	3.0	-	-	-	28/90
(31.1%)	62/90
(68.9%)	28/90
31.1%
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90
(100%)	0/90
0.0%
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800
(100%)	0/1800
0.0%
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	20/90	70/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(22.2%)	(77.8%)				
	5.0	-	24/90	66/90	-	-	90/90
100%
			(26.7%)	(73.3%)			
							
Pseudomonas	4.0	-	-	16/90	74/90	-	90/90
100%
aeruginosa							
				(17.8%)	(82.2%)		
ATCC 10145							
	3.0	-	-	-	14/90	76/90	14/90
15.6%
							
					(15.6%)	(84.4%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	2/90	88/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(2.2%)	(97.8%)				
	5.0	-	7/90	83/90	-	-	90/90
100%
Serratia			(7.8%)	(92.2%)			
marcescens	4.0	-	-	6/90	83/90	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
(OXA-48-like)				(6.7%)	(92.2%)		
GRE 1659005	3.0	-	-	-	6/90	84/90	6/90
6.7%
					(6.7%)	(93.3%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	

--- Page 29 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
90/90 90/90
7.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
90/90 90/90
6.0 - - - -
(100%) 100%
Staphylococcus 90/90 90/90
5.0 - - - -
aureus (100%) 100%
subsp. aureus 89/90 1/90 89/90
4.0 - - -
(mecA/C and (98.9%) (1.1%) 98.9%
MREJ) 90/90 0/90
3.0 - - - -
ATCC 43300 (100%) 0.0%
90/90 0/90
2.0 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 2/1260 1258/1260 2/1260
- - -
(No Analyte) (0.2%) (99.8%) 0.2%
89/90 90/90
7.8 1/90 (1.1%) - - -
(98.9%) 100%
89/90 89/90
6.8 - - - 1/90 (1.1%)
(98.9%) 98.9%
88/90 1/90 1/90 90/90
5.8 - -
(97.8%) (1.1%) (1.1%) 100%
Streptococcus
89/90 1/90 90/90
agalactiae 4.8 - - -
(98.9%) (1.1%) 100%
ATCC 13813
86/90 4/90 86/90
3.8 - - -
(95.6%) (4.4%) 95.6%
3/90 87/90 3/90
2.8 - - -
(3.3%) (96.7%) 3.3%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
6.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
90/90 90/90
5.5 - - - -
(100%) 100%
Streptococcus
89/90 1/90 90/90
pneumoniae 4.5 - - -
(98.9%) (1.1%) 100%
ATCC 6303
89/90 1/90 89/90
3.5 - - -
(98.9%) (1.1%) 98.9%
90/90 0/90
2.5 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
29

[Table 1 on page 29]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	7.0	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.0	-	90/90	-	-	-	90/90
100%
			(100%)				
Staphylococcus	5.0	-	-	90/90	-	-	90/90
100%
aureus				(100%)			
subsp. aureus	4.0	-	-	-	89/90
(98.9%)	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
(mecA/C and							
MREJ)	3.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
ATCC 43300						(100%)	
	2.0	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	2/1260
(0.2%)	1258/1260	2/1260
0.2%
						(99.8%)	
	7.8	89/90		-	-	-	90/90
100%
			1/90 (1.1%)				
		(98.9%)					
							
	6.8	89/90		-	-	1/90 (1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
			-				
		(98.9%)					
							
	5.8	-	88/90	1/90	1/90
(1.1%)	-	90/90
100%
			(97.8%)	(1.1%)			
Streptococcus							
	4.8	-	-	89/90	1/90	-	90/90
100%
agalactiae							
				(98.9%)	(1.1%)		
ATCC 13813							
	3.8	-	-	-	86/90	4/90	86/90
95.6%
							
					(95.6%)	(4.4%)	
	2.8	-	-	-	3/90
(3.3%)	87/90	3/90
3.3%
						(96.7%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	6.5	90/90		-	-	-	90/90
100%
			-				
		(100%)					
							
	5.5	-	90/90		-	-	90/90
100%
				-			
			(100%)				
Streptococcus							
	4.5	-	-	89/90	1/90	-	90/90
100%
pneumoniae							
				(98.9%)	(1.1%)		
ATCC 6303							
	3.5	-	-	-	89/90	1/90
(1.1%)	89/90
98.9%
							
					(98.9%)		
	2.5	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	

--- Page 30 ---
Analyte Concentration % Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result Total
(log10 Detected
≥107 106 105 104 ND
copies/mL)
90/90 0/90
1.5 - - - -
(100%) 0.0%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
90/90 90/90
7.8 - - - -
(100%) 100%
90/90 90/90
6.8 - - - -
(100%) 100%
5/90 84/90 1/90 90/90
5.8 - -
(5.6%) (93.3%) (1.1%) 100%
Streptococcus
3/90 87/90 90/90
pyogenes 4.8 - - -
(3.3%) (96.7%) 100%
ATCC 49399
3/90 87/90 90/90
3.8 - - -
(3.3%) (96.7%) 100%
16/90 74/90 16/90
2.8 - - -
(18.9%) (81.1%) 17.8%
None 1800/1800 0/1800
- - - -
(No Analyte) (100%) 0.0%
The precision of the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) genes was measured as the reproducibility of
analyte detection on each system and overall. Results are presented in Table 8 as the percent of
replicates that are detected at concentrations of the associated bacterium that are within the reportable
range, or below the reportable range, as well as the percent agreement with the expected Not Detected
result in unspiked samples.
30

[Table 1 on page 30]
Analyte	Concentration	% Replicates Reported in Each Bin Result					Total
	(log10						Detected
		≥107	106	105	104	ND	
	copies/mL)						
							
	1.5	-	-	-	-	90/90	0/90
0.0%
						(100%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	
	7.8	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	6.8	90/90	-	-	-	-	90/90
100%
		(100%)					
	5.8	5/90	84/90	1/90	-	-	90/90
100%
		(5.6%)	(93.3%)	(1.1%)			
Streptococcus							
	4.8	-	3/90	87/90	-	-	90/90
100%
pyogenes							
			(3.3%)	(96.7%)			
ATCC 49399							
	3.8	-	-	3/90	87/90	-	90/90
100%
							
				(3.3%)	(96.7%)		
	2.8	-	-	-	16/90	74/90	16/90
17.8%
					(18.9%)	(81.1%)	
	None
(No Analyte)	-	-	-	-	1800/1800	0/1800
0.0%
						(100%)	

--- Page 31 ---
Table 8: Reproducibility of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Antimicrobial Resistance Gene Results on
FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0 and FilmArray Torch
Concentration Agreement with the Expected Result
AMR Gene of Organism Expected FilmArray FilmArray
FilmArray All Systems/Sites
Organism (copies/mL Result 2.0 Torch
[95% Cl]
log10) Site A Site B Site C
449/450
Reportable 150/150 149/150 150/150
Detected 99.8%
Range 100% 99.3 100%
[98.8%-99.9%]
CTX-M 1/90
Below Reportable Detected 0/30 1/30 0/30
Klebsiella oxytoca 1.1%
Range (Variable) 0% 3.3% 0%
GRE 1254054 [0.03%-6.0%]
1799/1800
None N/A or Not 600/600 599/600 600/600
99.9%
(No Analyte) Detected 100% 99.8% 100%
[99.7%-100%]
360/360
Reportable 120/120 120/120 120/120
Detected 100%
Range 100% 100% 100%
[99.0%-100%]
IMP 22/180
Below Reportable Detected 10/60 9/60 3/60
Escherichia coli 12.2%
Range (Variable) 16.7% 15.0% 5.0%
GRE 1062016 [7.8%-17.9%]
1800/1800
None N/A or Not 600/600 600/600 600/600
100%
(No Analyte) Detected 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
31

[Table 1 on page 31]
	Concentration		Agreement with the Expected Result			
AMR Gene	of Organism	Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	
			FilmArray			All Systems/Sites
Organism	(copies/mL	Result		2.0	Torch	
						[95% Cl]
	log10)		Site A	Site B	Site C	
						
						449/450
	Reportable		150/150	149/150	150/150	
		Detected				99.8%
	Range		100%	99.3	100%	
						[98.8%-99.9%]
						
CTX-M	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	0/30
0%	1/30
3.3%	0/30
0%	1/90
1.1%
[0.03%-6.0%]
Klebsiella oxytoca						
GRE 1254054						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	600/600
100%	599/600
99.8%	600/600
100%	1799/1800
99.9%
[99.7%-100%]
						360/360
	Reportable		120/120	120/120	120/120	
		Detected				100%
	Range		100%	100%	100%	
						[99.0%-100%]
						
IMP	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	10/60
16.7%	9/60
15.0%	3/60
5.0%	22/180
12.2%
[7.8%-17.9%]
Escherichia coli						
GRE 1062016						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	1800/1800
100%
[99.8%-100%]

--- Page 32 ---
Concentration Agreement with the Expected Result
AMR Gene of Organism Expected FilmArray FilmArray
FilmArray All Systems/Sites
Organism (copies/mL Result 2.0 Torch
[95% Cl]
log10) Site A Site B Site C
359/360
Reportable 120/120 119/120 120/120
Detected 99.7%
Range 100% 99.2% 100%
[98.5%-100%]
KPC
33/180
Klebsiella Below Reportable Detected 14/60 10/60 9/60
18.3%
pneumoniae Range (Variable) 23.3% 16.7% 15.0%
[13.0%-24.8%]
AR-Bank#0097
1800/1800
None N/A or Not 600/600 600/600 600/600
100%
(No Analyte) Detected 100% 100% 100%
[99.8%-100%]
357/360
Reportable 119/120 118/120 120/120
Detected 99.2%
Range 99.2% 98.3% 100%
mecA/C and [97.6%-99.8%]
MREJ 0/180
Below Reportable Detected 0/60 0/60 0/60
Staphylococcus 0%
Range (Variable) 0% 0% 0%
aureus [0.0%-2.0%]
ATCC 43300 1260/1260
None N/A or Not 420/420 420/420 420/420
100%
(No Analyte) Detected 100% 100% 100%
[99.7%-100%]
449/450
Reportable 150/150 149/150 150/150
Detected 99.8%
Range 100% 99.3% 100%
[98.8%-100%]
NDM
2/90
Acinetobacter Below Reportable Detected 1/30 1/30 0/30
2.2%
baumannii Range (Variable) 3.3% 3.3% 0%
[0.3%-7.8%]
AR-Bank#0033
1799/1800
None N/A or Not 599/600 600/600 600/600
99.9%
(No Analyte) Detected 99.8% 100% 100%
[99.7%-100%]
359/360
Reportable 120/120 119/120 120/120
Detected 99.70%
Range 100% 99.2% 100%
[98.5%-100%]
OXA-48-like
35/180
Serratia Below Reportable Detected 14/60 12/60 9/60
19.4%
marcescens GRE Range (Variable) 23.3% 20.0% 15.0%
[13.9%-26.0%]
1659005
1798/1800
None N/A or Not 598/600 600/600 600/600
99.9%
(No Analyte) Detected 99.7% 100% 100%
[99.6%-100%]
Reportable 120/120 120/120 120/120 360/360
VIM Detected
Range 100% 100% 100% 100%
32

[Table 1 on page 32]
	Concentration		Agreement with the Expected Result			
AMR Gene	of Organism	Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	
			FilmArray			All Systems/Sites
Organism	(copies/mL	Result		2.0	Torch	
						[95% Cl]
	log10)		Site A	Site B	Site C	
						
						359/360
	Reportable		120/120	119/120	120/120	
		Detected				99.7%
	Range		100%	99.2%	100%	
						[98.5%-100%]
KPC						
	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	14/60
23.3%	10/60
16.7%	9/60
15.0%	33/180
18.3%
[13.0%-24.8%]
Klebsiella						
pneumoniae						
AR-Bank#0097						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	1800/1800
100%
[99.8%-100%]
						
						357/360
	Reportable		119/120	118/120	120/120	
		Detected				99.2%
	Range		99.2%	98.3%	100%	
mecA/C and						[97.6%-99.8%]
						
MREJ	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	0/60
0%	0/60
0%	0/60
0%	0/180
0%
[0.0%-2.0%]
Staphylococcus						
aureus						
ATCC 43300	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	420/420
100%	420/420
100%	420/420
100%	1260/1260
100%
[99.7%-100%]
						
						449/450
	Reportable		150/150	149/150	150/150	
		Detected				99.8%
	Range		100%	99.3%	100%	
						[98.8%-100%]
NDM						
	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	1/30
3.3%	1/30
3.3%	0/30
0%	2/90
2.2%
[0.3%-7.8%]
Acinetobacter						
baumannii						
AR-Bank#0033						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	599/600
99.8%	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	1799/1800
99.9%
[99.7%-100%]
						
						359/360
	Reportable		120/120	119/120	120/120	
		Detected				99.70%
	Range		100%	99.2%	100%	
						[98.5%-100%]
OXA-48-like						
	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	14/60
23.3%	12/60
20.0%	9/60
15.0%	35/180
19.4%
[13.9%-26.0%]
Serratia						
marcescens GRE						
1659005						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	598/600
99.7%	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	1798/1800
99.9%
[99.6%-100%]
						
	Reportable		120/120	120/120	120/120	360/360
VIM		Detected				
	Range		100%	100%	100%	100%
						

--- Page 33 ---
Concentration Agreement with the Expected Result
AMR Gene of Organism Expected FilmArray FilmArray
FilmArray All Systems/Sites
Organism (copies/mL Result 2.0 Torch
[95% Cl]
log10) Site A Site B Site C
Enterobacter [99.0%-100%]
cloacae 22/180
Below Reportable Detected 10/60 9/60 3/60
AR-BANK#0154 12.2%
Range (Variable) 16.7% 15.0% 5.0%
[7.8%-17.9%]
1799/1800
None N/A or Not 599/600 600/600 600/600
99.9%
(No Analyte) Detected 99.8% 100% 100%
[99.7%-100%]
c. Linearity/assay reportable range:
Linearity
Linearity of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel was performed to evaluate unbinned value response to
changes in concentration and to determine if an offset exists between the unbinned value and a dPCR
(digital PCR) determined molecular concentration (the unbinned value is calculated using real-time
amplification data for the analyte relative to a known standard (Quantified Standard Material or QSM)).
A series of contrived samples were prepared in artificial bronchoalveolar lavage (aBAL) matrix such
that each bacterial analyte was tested at six different concentrations spanning 1.5 – 7.8 log10
(copies/mL). The input concentration of each cultured bacterium was determined by digital PCR
(dPCR), which served as the reference concentrations for offset determination. Once prepared, each
sample was tested repeatedly at each concentration on a single day for a total of eighteen replicate
measures per analyte.
The unbinned values generated by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assays were plotted as a function of
the nominal (dPCR) input concentrations to determine the linearity of the response. All plot data were
observed to be linear and this was confirmed through mathematical modeling. For each analyte, data
bounding the reporting range (~3.0 – 7.0 log10 (copies/mL)) were fit using linear and quadratic models.
In all cases, the linear fit model was preferred as it was sufficient to describe the change in unbinned
values as a function of changing inputs and the addition of curvature did not improve the fit predictions.
The best fit linear model coefficients for each bacterial FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assay were
evaluated (slope, y-intercept, and coefficient of determination (Adj R2)). The slope provides a direct
measure of how the unbinned value responds to changes in input concentration, where a slope near 1.0
demonstrates that the unbinned values change in direct proportion to the input concentration. The best
fit slopes of the assays varied within the range of 0.975 – 1.114, demonstrating that changes in the
33

[Table 1 on page 33]
	Concentration		Agreement with the Expected Result			
AMR Gene	of Organism	Expected		FilmArray	FilmArray	
			FilmArray			All Systems/Sites
Organism	(copies/mL	Result		2.0	Torch	
						[95% Cl]
	log10)		Site A	Site B	Site C	
						
Enterobacter						[99.0%-100%]
cloacae	Below Reportable
Range	Detected
(Variable)	10/60
16.7%	9/60
15.0%	3/60
5.0%	22/180
12.2%
[7.8%-17.9%]
AR-BANK#0154						
						
	None
(No Analyte)	N/A or Not
Detected	599/600
99.8%	600/600
100%	600/600
100%	1799/1800
99.9%
[99.7%-100%]

--- Page 34 ---
unbinned values display a ~1:1 relationship to changes in the input concentration. The y-intercept from
the linear equation represents the theoretical offset predicted to exist at a zero input concentration. The
Adj R2 value provides a measure of the goodness of fit between the linear model and the data, where
values of 1.0 indicate perfect agreement and values of 0 indicate random association displaying no
correlation. The best fit Adj R2 values of the assays were high, ranging from 0.951 – 0.989, further
demonstrating strong agreement between the data and the linear model.
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel unbinned value was shown to respond proportionately to changes in
input concentration following a linear relationship defined by slopes around 1.0. The offset of each
assay was found to be within the range 0.01 – 0.27-log10 (copies/mL) and does not change substantially
as a function of concentration over the reportable range. These data demonstrate that the Pneumonia
Panel unbinned value is accurate and thus that the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel reported bin results will
accurately reflect the concentration of analytes in a test sample.
d. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Process Controls
Two process controls are included in each pouch:
RNA Process Control: The RNA Process Control assay targets an RNA transcript from the yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The yeast is present in the pouch in a freeze-dried form and becomes
rehydrated when sample is loaded. The control material is carried through all stages of the test process,
including lysis, nucleic acid purification, reverse transcription, PCR1, dilution, PCR2, and DNA
melting. A positive RNA Process Control result indicates that all steps carried out in the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel pouch were successful.
Quantified Standard Material (QSM) Control: The QSM assay detects a quantified standard synthetic
nucleic acid that is subject to all stages of the test process following sample lysis (bead beating). A
positive QSM control result indicates that the expected level of QSM is present (approximately 106
copies/mL) for use in determining assay and bin results for bacterial analytes.
Both control assays must be positive for the test run to pass. If the controls fail, the sample should be
retested using a new pouch.
34

--- Page 35 ---
External Controls
External controls are not provided with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. However, five frozen (-70°C) external
control mixes (ECMs) (see Table below) were provided to the study sites for daily testing during the
prospective clinical trial and the clinical study testing contrived specimens. FilmArray operators were required
to complete a valid ECM run (correct results obtained) on each day of clinical specimen testing (tested on a
rotating basis).
Table 9: External Control Mixes (EC’s) Utilized in the Clinical Evaluations
External Expected Calls
Control
Mixes
ECM1 Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, Aspergillus spp., Adenovirus, Influenza A,
Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Proteus spp,
bla (Carbapenem resistance), bla (Carbapenem resistance)
NDM KPC
ECM2 Enterobacter aerogenes/cloacae complex, Cryptococcus neoformans/gattii, Coronavirus, Middle
Eastern Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pneumoniae, bla (Extended spectrum beta-lactamase),
CTX-M
bla (Carbapenem resistance)
Oxa48-like
ECM3 Klebsiella pneumoniae group, Escherichia coli, Human Metapneumovirus, Influenza B, Klebsiella
oxytoca
Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus, bla (Carbapenem resistance), bla (Carbapenem
VIM IMP
resistance)
ECM4 Staphylococcus aureus, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
Pneumocystis jirovecii, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus
Parainfluenza Virus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes
mecA/mecC and MREJ (Methicillin resistance)
ECM5 None
External controls should be used in accordance with laboratory protocols and the appropriate
accrediting organization requirements, as applicable. Molecular grade water or saline can be used as an
external negative control. Previously characterized positive samples or negative samples spiked with
well characterized organisms can be used as external positive controls.
Specimen Stability
A study was performed to assess and validate specimen storage and handling recommendations for
BAL-like and sputum-like specimens that will be tested with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel.
Contrived samples were preprared with representative panel organism spiked into pools of residual
35

[Table 1 on page 35]
	External		Expected Calls
	Control		
	Mixes		
ECM1			Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, Aspergillus spp., Adenovirus, Influenza A,
Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Proteus spp,
bla (Carbapenem resistance), bla (Carbapenem resistance)
NDM KPC
ECM2			Enterobacter aerogenes/cloacae complex, Cryptococcus neoformans/gattii, Coronavirus, Middle
Eastern Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pneumoniae, bla (Extended spectrum beta-lactamase),
CTX-M
bla (Carbapenem resistance)
Oxa48-like
ECM3			Klebsiella pneumoniae group, Escherichia coli, Human Metapneumovirus, Influenza B, Klebsiella
oxytoca
Serratia marcescens, Staphylococcus aureus, bla (Carbapenem resistance), bla (Carbapenem
VIM IMP
resistance)
ECM4			Staphylococcus aureus, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
Pneumocystis jirovecii, Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus
Parainfluenza Virus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes
mecA/mecC and MREJ (Methicillin resistance)
ECM5			None

--- Page 36 ---
clinical BAL or sputum specimens. One sample (QL) was composed of spiked RNA virus, DNA virus,
and aytipical bacteria at 3x LoD, as well as the organisms that were native to the pooled clinical
specimen matrix. The other sample (QT) was composed of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria
(including fastidious species and isolates carting antimicrobial resistance genes) spiked at 104
copies/mL. Samples were tested on the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel immediately after sample
preparation to generate control data (no storage; D0) and were then stored in refrigerated conditions for
additional testing after one (D1) and two (D2) days, based on current lower respiratory specimen
storage guidelines provided by the CDC. Ten replicates were tested at each storage timepoint and results
were compared to the control.
In the contrived BAL and sputum samples, detection of analytes was consistent between the stored and
unstored samples out to two days of refrigerated storage (9/10 or 10/10 detected result), with no
noticeable changes in amplification data associated with storage. Only the mecA/C and MREJ result in
the BAL sample was detected in fewer replicates than anticipated on the second day of storage (mecA/C
and MREJ was reported as Detected in 7/9 replicates (77.8%) with a Staphylococcus aureus Detected
result), but review of the amplification data did not suggest a difference in amplification or template
levels in the stored sample compared to the unstored samples. Detection of native analytes (viruses,
bacteria, and AMR genes) within the same contrived BAL and sputum samples was also consistent
between the stored and unstored samples out to two days of refrigerated storage. Results are presented
in the Table below.
Table 10: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Results for Stored Contrived BAL and Sputum Samples
Analyte Detection
BAL Sputum
Analyte Strain Concentration
No No
Day 1 Day 2 Day 1 Day 2
Storage Storage
(D1) (D2) (D1) (D2)
(D0) (D0)
Spiked Analytes
Adenovirus Zeptometrix 3.0E+00
10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
(Type B3) 0810062CF TCID
50
/ mL
Parainfluenza Virus Zeptometrix 7.5E+02
10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
(Type 4a) 0810060CF TCID
50
/mL
Respiratory Zeptometrix 3.0E+00
Syncytial Virus 0810040ACF TCID 50 /mL 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
Legionella 1.5E+03
ATCC 33152 CFU/mL 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
pneumophila
36

[Table 1 on page 36]
			Analyte Detection					
								
			BAL			Sputum		
Analyte	Strain	Concentration						
								
			No			No		
				Day 1	Day 2		Day 1	Day 2
			Storage			Storage		
				(D1)	(D2)		(D1)	(D2)
			(D0)			(D0)		
								
								
Spiked Analytes								
								
Adenovirus
(Type B3)	Zeptometrix
0810062CF	3.0E+00
TCID / mL
50	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Parainfluenza Virus
(Type 4a)	Zeptometrix
0810060CF	7.5E+02
TCID /mL
50	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Respiratory
Syncytial Virus	Zeptometrix
0810040ACF	3.0E+00
TCID /mL
50	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Legionella
pneumophila	ATCC 33152	1.5E+03
CFU/mL	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10

--- Page 37 ---
Analyte Detection
BAL Sputum
Analyte Strain Concentration
No No
Day 1 Day 2 Day 1 Day 2
Storage Storage
(D1) (D2) (D1) (D2)
(D0) (D0)
Haemophilus
ATCC 10211 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
influenzae
Klebsiella oxytoca 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
GRE
CTX-M 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
1254054
1.0E+04
Proteus mirabilis ATCC 35659 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
Staphylococcus copies/mL
10/10 10/10 9/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
aureus
ATCC 43300
mecA/C & MREJ 10/10 10/10 7/9 10/10 10/10 10/10
Streptococcus
pneumoniae ATCC 6303 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
NativeAnalytes
Human Rhinovirus/
Enterovirusa 10/10 9/10 10/10 9/10 10/10 10/10
Influenza A - 10/10 10/10 10/10
Enterobacter
cloacae
10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
complexa
Escherichia coli - 10/10 10/10 10/10
Haemophilus
- 10/10 10/10 10/10
influenzae
Pseudomonas Unknown
aeruginosaa 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
Streptococcus
agalactiae - 10/10 10/10 10/10
Streptococcus
- 10/10 10/10 10/10
pneumoniae
Staphylococcus
10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
aureus
mecA/C and MREJ 10/10 9/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10
a
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Enterobacter cloacae complex and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were present as native analytes in BAL and/or
sputum versions of both the QL and QT samples. Data are shown only from Sample QL (containing viruses and atypical bacteria), but each of
these analytes was also detected in all replicates (10/10) per storage condition in the BAL or sputum versions of Sample QT.
A secondary stability study was performed to asses the potential impact of storage on analyte detection
and bin results with clinical BAL and sputum specimens collected, stored, and tested in the intended use
37

[Table 1 on page 37]
			Analyte Detection					
								
			BAL			Sputum		
Analyte	Strain	Concentration						
								
			No			No		
				Day 1	Day 2		Day 1	Day 2
			Storage			Storage		
				(D1)	(D2)		(D1)	(D2)
			(D0)			(D0)		
								
Haemophilus
influenzae	ATCC 10211	1.0E+04
copies/mL	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Klebsiella oxytoca	GRE
1254054		10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
CTX-M			10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Proteus mirabilis	ATCC 35659		10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Staphylococcus
aureus	ATCC 43300		10/10	10/10	9/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
mecA/C & MREJ			10/10	10/10	7/9	10/10	10/10	10/10
Streptococcus
pneumoniae	ATCC 6303		10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
								
NativeAnalytes								
								
Human Rhinovirus/
Enterovirusa			10/10	9/10	10/10	9/10	10/10	10/10
Influenza A			-			10/10	10/10	10/10
Enterobacter
cloacae
complexa			10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
Escherichia coli			-			10/10	10/10	10/10
Haemophilus
influenzae						10/10	10/10	10/10
			-					
	Unknown							
Pseudomonas
aeruginosaa			10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
								
Streptococcus
agalactiae			-			10/10	10/10	10/10
Streptococcus
pneumoniae						10/10	10/10	10/10
			-					
								
Staphylococcus
aureus			10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10
mecA/C and MREJ			10/10	9/10	10/10	10/10	10/10	10/10

--- Page 38 ---
clinical laboratory environment.Thirty-two clinical BAL and sputum specimens were evaluated and for
the majority (22/32 or 68.8%), no difference in analyte detection or amplification data (Cp or unbinned
values) was observed between the stored and unstored samples. However, in ten specimens, an increase
or decrease in unbinned values of ≥0.5-log was observed for one or more bacterial analytes, while viral
detection and Cp values (for the same specimens, when applicable) were unaffected. Unbinned values
for P. aeruginosa, S. aureus or Proteus spp. increased ≥0.5-log after either one or two days of storage in
four specimens (4/32 or 12.5%), suggesting possible organism growth during storage of the specimen.
By contrast, in six specimens (6/32 or 18.8%) a decrease of ≥0.5-log in the unbinned value and/or loss
of detection for one or more bacterial analytes was seen after two days of refrigerated storage. In some
cases, all bacterial analytes in the specimen changed similarly over the storage interval while in others,
only one analyte appeared to change while another remained stable relative to the control.
These results support the specimen storage claims in the Product Insert that BAL-like and sputum-like
specimens should be tested with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel as soon as possible after collection, or
if stored in refrigerated (approximately 2-8°C) conditions, may be tested up to one day after collection.
Fresh vs. Frozen Study
In order to utilize frozen clinical respiratory samples in the evaluation of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel,
an analytical study was conducted to demonstrate that preservation of samples by freezing at ≤-70°C
does not affect the accuracy of test results compared to freshly collected or freshly prepared samples.
In this study, a contrived clinical specimen set was prepared using residual clinical samples that were
pre-screened with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and found to be negative for the analytes of interest.
The testing set was comprised of 448 specimens (223 sputum and 225 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)),
prepared in duplicate, that were co-spiked with a select set of analytes to investigate a potential for loss
of detection following freezing: gram-positive bacteria (Streptococcus pyogenes), antimicrobial
resistance genes (blaKPC carbapenemase (KPC) or blaNDM New Delhi metallo-β-lactamase (NDM)
hosted by seven different gram-negative bacteria: Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterobacter cloacae,
Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Proteus mirabilis), atypical bacteria
(Mycoplasma pneumoniae), RNA viruses (human metapneumovirus and influenza B), and DNA viruses
(adenovirus). Multiple unique strains were evaluated per analyte type.
Specimen spiking for this study and the contrived specimen study was performed at the same time,
following the contrived study protocol. All specimens were prepared in duplicate (with each replicate
specimen spiked separately). Specimens were spiked with a variety of different isolates/strains for each
organism at concentrations spanning the clinically observed ranges, then coded and randomized so that
personnel testing the specimens were blinded to the expected test results. One replicate was tested fresh
(without a freeze-thaw) on the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel at BioFire. The second aliquot was frozen
and tested at a clinical site according to the prospective clinical study protocol alongside clinical (non-
38

--- Page 39 ---
contrived) specimens.
Additionally, 36 clinical specimens (collected during the prospective study) were tested at BioFire (by
users without knowledge of the expected results) from a frozen aliquot and the results were compared to
the results that were obtained when the specimens were tested fresh at the clinical study sites. The same
select panel of analytes was examined in the clinical specimens as the contrived specimen set. Study
results demonstrated that there is no intrinsic property of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel analytes or
LRT specimens that lead to loss of analyte integrity and supports the use of frozen specimens in
Pneumonia Panel clinical studies.
e. Analytical Reactivity (Inclusivity)
Analytical reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assays was evaluated with a collection of more than
350 viral and bacterial isolates representing relevant species, subspecies, strains, serotypes, or genotypes
as well as temporal and geographic diversity for each of the panel analytes. Each isolate was tested in
triplicate at concentrations near LoD or the lowest reportable level for the analyte. In silico analyses
were performed between January 2016 and January 2018 of sequence data from public databases was
also used to make predictions of assay reactivity for less common strains or serotypes that were not
tested but that may be detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assays. Reactivity of FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel assays with genetically diverse viruses, bacteria, and antimicrobial resistance genes
was evaluated via a combination of empirical (wet) testing and in-silico analysis of sequences available
in public databases. Limitations on reactivity are described in the Analytical Reactivity (Inclusivity)
section. There is a risk of false positive results due to non-specific amplification and/or cross-reactivity
with organisms found in the respiratory tract. Observed and predicted cross-reactivity for FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel is described in the Analytical Specificity section. Erroneous results due to cross-
reactivity with organisms that were not evaluated or new variant sequences that emerge is also possible.
Positive and negative predictive values are highly dependent on prevalence. False negative test results
are more likely during peak activity when prevalence of disease is high. False positive test results are
more likely during periods when prevalence is moderate to low.
Atypical bacteria and viruses were tested and detected at concentrations within 3× LoD (Table 12 -
Table 21). Bacteria were tested at a concentration of 1.0E+04 copies/mL (based on digital PCR of a
single-copy gene in the bacterial chromosome) and the majority of isolates (94.4%) were detected with
the expected bin result (Table 22 - Table 36) and when the bacterium was detected, the appropriate
associated AMR gene(s) were also detected (Table 37 - Table 43).
Limitations on assay reactivity (observed and/or predicted by in silico analysis) with specific viral and
bacterial isolates or sequences and specific AMR gene types or sequences are noted (Table 11). Most
limitations are associated with single-base sequence variants under one or more assay primers.
39

--- Page 40 ---
Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Observed/
Limitation Predicted Analyte Strain/Isolate/Variant
Resulta
Enterobacter hormaechei
Enterobacter cloacae complex
(ATCC 49162)a
Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp.
Detected
Klebsiella pneumoniae group quasipneumoniae
may be under-
Minor (DSM 28211)b
reported by one
Moraxella catarrhalis
bin (≤10-fold) Moraxella catarrhalis
(ATCC 23246)c
Streptococcus pyogenes
Streptococcus pyogenes
(ATCC 19615)
Enterobacter asburiae
Detected
Enterobacter cloacae complex (ATCC 35953, 35954, 35955, and
may be under-
35957)d
reported by two Klebsiella (Enterobacter)
or more bins Klebsiella aerogenes aerogenes
(>10-fold) (ATCC 29751)e
mecA/C and MREJ MREJ type xv
Major
Acinetobacter
Acinetobacter nosocomialis
calcoaceticus-baumannii
(ATCC 700472)f
complex
Not Detected Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(ATCC 25619)g
MREJ type xviii
mecA/C and MREJ
MREJ type xix
a. Minor limitation observed for this isolate due to sequence variant under a primer. Similar limitation predicted for two E.
hormaechei sequences (3.0%) from public databases.
b. Minor limitation observed for this isolate due to sequence variant under a primer. Similar limitation predicted for one K.
quasipneumoniae sequence (20.0%) from public databases. Additional minor or major limitation predicted for four K.
pneumoniae sequences (0.3%) from public databases.
c. Minor limitation observed for this isolate. Additional minor or major limitation predicted for two M. catarrhalis sequences
(3.3%) from public databases.
d. Major limitation observed or predicted for these isolates due to sequence variance under primer. Similar limitation predicted for
five E. asburiae sequences (10.9%), eight E. cloacae sequences (2.2%), and two E. ludwigii sequences (16.7%) from public
databases.
e. Major limitation observed for this isolate due sequence variance under primers. Similar limitation predicted for six K. aerogenes
sequences (4.3%) from public databases
f. ATCC 700472 could not be confirmed as A. nosocomialis by sequence and may be a non-Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex species that has been mis-identified.
g. Major limitation observed for this isolate due to sequence variant under a primer. Similar limitation predicted for one P.
aeruginosa sequence (0.7%) from public databases.
40

[Table 1 on page 40]
	Observed/		
Limitation	Predicted	Analyte	Strain/Isolate/Variant
	Resulta		
Minor	Detected
may be under-
reported by one
bin (≤10-fold)	Enterobacter cloacae complex	Enterobacter hormaechei
(ATCC 49162)a
		Klebsiella pneumoniae group	Klebsiella quasipneumoniae subsp.
quasipneumoniae
(DSM 28211)b
		Moraxella catarrhalis	Moraxella catarrhalis
(ATCC 23246)c
		Streptococcus pyogenes	Streptococcus pyogenes
(ATCC 19615)
Major	Detected
may be under-
reported by two
or more bins
(>10-fold)	Enterobacter cloacae complex	Enterobacter asburiae
(ATCC 35953, 35954, 35955, and
35957)d
		Klebsiella aerogenes	Klebsiella (Enterobacter)
aerogenes
(ATCC 29751)e
		mecA/C and MREJ	MREJ type xv
	Not Detected	Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	Acinetobacter nosocomialis
(ATCC 700472)f
		Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(ATCC 25619)g
		mecA/C and MREJ	MREJ type xviii
MREJ type xix

--- Page 41 ---
Table 12: Adenovirus Isolates Tested and Detected
Organism Species Serotypea Source [Strain/Location/Year] Test Result
Concentration
(copies/mL) xLoD
18 ATCC VR-19 [Washington D.C./1954] 9.2E+03 1x
12 ATCC VR-863 [Huie/Massachusetts] 2.7E+04 3x
A
31 Zeptometrix 0810073CF 2.7E+04 3x
3 Zeptometrix 0810062CF 1.8E+03 1x
7 ATCC VR-7 [Gomen/California/1954] 5.3E+03 3x
7A Zeptometrix 0810021CF 5.3E+03 3x
Univ of Iowa Research Foundation
7d/d2 5.3E+03 3x
[Iowa/2001]
Univ of Iowa Research Foundation
7h 5.3E+03 3x
[Iowa/1999]
B 11 ATCC VR-12 [Slobitski/Massachusetts] 5.3E+03 3x
14 ATCC VR-15 [De Wit/Netherlands/1955] 5.3E+03 3x
16 ATCC VR-17 [CH.79/Saudi Arabia/1955] 5.3E+03 3x
21 ATCC VR-1833 [128/Saudi Arabia/1956] 5.3E+03 3x
34 ATCC VR-716 [Compton/1972] 5.3E+03 3x
35 ATCC VR-718 [Holden] 5.3E+03 3x
50 ATCC VR-1602 [Wan/Amsterdam/1988] 5.3E+03 3x Adenovirus
Adenovirus
2 ATCC VR-846 [Adenoid 6] 7.5E+03 1x Detected
1 Zeptometrix 0810050CF 2.3E+04 3x
C 5 Zeptometrix 0810020CF 2.3E+04 3x
6 ATCC VR-6 [Tonsil 99] 2.3E+04 3x
37 Zeptometrix 08100119CF 5.8E+02 1x
8 Zeptometrix 0810069CF 1.7E+03 3x
D
20 Zeptometrix 0810115CF 1.7E+03 3x
4 Zeptometrix 0810070CF 1.7E+04 1x
ATCC VR-1572 [RI-67/Missouri/1952-
4 1.0E+04 0.6x
1953]
E
Univ of Iowa Research Foundation [S
4a 1.0E+04 0.6x
Carolina/2004]
ATCC VR-930 [Tak 73-3544/
41 5.5E+03 1x
Netherlands/1973]
40 NCPV 0101141v 1.6E+04 3x
F
40 Zeptometrix 0810084CF 1.6E+04 3x
41 Zeptometrix 0810085CF 1.6E+04 3x
a. In silico analysis of available sequences predicts that the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel will also react with Adenovirus B55, C57, all
species D serotypes, and G52.
41

[Table 1 on page 41]
Organism	Species	Serotypea	Source [Strain/Location/Year]	Test		Result
				Concentration		
				(copies/mL)	xLoD	
Adenovirus	A	18	ATCC VR-19 [Washington D.C./1954]	9.2E+03	1x	Adenovirus
Detected
		12	ATCC VR-863 [Huie/Massachusetts]	2.7E+04	3x	
		31	Zeptometrix 0810073CF	2.7E+04	3x	
	B	3	Zeptometrix 0810062CF	1.8E+03	1x	
		7	ATCC VR-7 [Gomen/California/1954]	5.3E+03	3x	
		7A	Zeptometrix 0810021CF	5.3E+03	3x	
		7d/d2	Univ of Iowa Research Foundation
[Iowa/2001]	5.3E+03	3x	
		7h	Univ of Iowa Research Foundation
[Iowa/1999]	5.3E+03	3x	
		11	ATCC VR-12 [Slobitski/Massachusetts]	5.3E+03	3x	
		14	ATCC VR-15 [De Wit/Netherlands/1955]	5.3E+03	3x	
		16	ATCC VR-17 [CH.79/Saudi Arabia/1955]	5.3E+03	3x	
		21	ATCC VR-1833 [128/Saudi Arabia/1956]	5.3E+03	3x	
		34	ATCC VR-716 [Compton/1972]	5.3E+03	3x	
		35	ATCC VR-718 [Holden]	5.3E+03	3x	
		50	ATCC VR-1602 [Wan/Amsterdam/1988]	5.3E+03	3x	
	C	2	ATCC VR-846 [Adenoid 6]	7.5E+03	1x	
		1	Zeptometrix 0810050CF	2.3E+04	3x	
		5	Zeptometrix 0810020CF	2.3E+04	3x	
		6	ATCC VR-6 [Tonsil 99]	2.3E+04	3x	
	D	37	Zeptometrix 08100119CF	5.8E+02	1x	
		8	Zeptometrix 0810069CF	1.7E+03	3x	
		20	Zeptometrix 0810115CF	1.7E+03	3x	
	E	4	Zeptometrix 0810070CF	1.7E+04	1x	
		4	ATCC VR-1572 [RI-67/Missouri/1952-
1953]	1.0E+04	0.6x	
		4a	Univ of Iowa Research Foundation [S
Carolina/2004]	1.0E+04	0.6x	
	F	41	ATCC VR-930 [Tak 73-3544/
Netherlands/1973]	5.5E+03	1x	
		40	NCPV 0101141v	1.6E+04	3x	
		40	Zeptometrix 0810084CF	1.6E+04	3x	
		41	Zeptometrix 0810085CF	1.6E+04	3x	

--- Page 42 ---
Table 13: Coronavirus Isolates Tested and Detected
Organism Type Source [Location/Year] Test Concentration Result
(copies/mL) X LoD
229E ATCC VR-740 8.1E+01 1x
Zeptometrix 0810229CF 2.4E+02 3x
Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015] 1.0E+04 1x
HKU1a Clinical Specimen [Detroit/2010] 3.0E+04 3x
Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015] 3.0E+04 3x
Coronavirus
Coronavirus Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015] 3.0E+04 3x
Detected
Clinical Specimen [S Carolina/2010] 3.0E+04 3x
NL63 BEI NR-470b [Amsterdam/2003] 2.7E+02 1x
Zeptometrix 0810228CF 8.0E+02 3x
OC43 ATCC VR-759c 4.6E+03 1x
Zeptometrix 0810024CF 1.4E+04 3x
a. No cultured isolates of Coronavirus HKU1 were available for testing. Five clinical NPS specimens containing Coronavirus HKU1
were collected from different regions of the US in 2010 and 2015, quantified molecularly, and tested.
b. Organism obtained through the NIH Biodefense and Emerging Infections Research Resources Repository, NIAID, NIH: Human
Coronavirus NL63, NR-470.
c. Discontinued part #. See ATCC VR-1558.
Table 14: Human Metapneumovirus Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Concentration
Organism Genotype Serotype Source [Location/Year] Result
(TCID50/mL) X LoD
A1 Zeptometrix 0810161CF
16 5.0E+01 1x
Human [Iowa10/2003] Human
Metapneumovirus Metapneumovirus
9
Zeptometrix 0810160CF
1.5E+02 3x Detected
[Iowa3/2002]
A2 Zeptometrix 0810163CF
20 1.5E+02 3x
[Iowa14/2003]
Zeptometrix 0810164CF
27 1.5E+02 3x
[Iowa27/2004]
B1 Zeptometrix0810156CF
3 1.5E+02 3x
[Peru2/2002]
Zeptometrix 0810158CF
5 1.5E+02 3x
[Peru3/2003]
Zeptometrix 0810159CF
8 1.5E+02 3x
B2 [Peru6/2003]
Zeptometrix 0810157CF
4 1.5E+02 3x
[Peru1/2002]
Zeptometrix 0810162CF
18 1.0E+02 3x
[Iowa18/2003]
42

[Table 1 on page 42]
Organism	Type	Source [Location/Year]	Test Concentration		Result
			(copies/mL)	X LoD	
Coronavirus	229E	ATCC VR-740	8.1E+01	1x	Coronavirus
Detected
		Zeptometrix 0810229CF	2.4E+02	3x	
	HKU1a	Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015]	1.0E+04	1x	
		Clinical Specimen [Detroit/2010]	3.0E+04	3x	
		Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015]	3.0E+04	3x	
		Clinical Specimen [Utah/2015]	3.0E+04	3x	
		Clinical Specimen [S Carolina/2010]	3.0E+04	3x	
	NL63	BEI NR-470b [Amsterdam/2003]	2.7E+02	1x	
		Zeptometrix 0810228CF	8.0E+02	3x	
	OC43	ATCC VR-759c	4.6E+03	1x	
		Zeptometrix 0810024CF	1.4E+04	3x	

[Table 2 on page 42]
				Test Concentration		
Organism	Genotype	Serotype	Source [Location/Year]			Result
				(TCID50/mL)	X LoD	
						
Human
Metapneumovirus	A1	16	Zeptometrix 0810161CF
[Iowa10/2003]	5.0E+01	1x	Human
Metapneumovirus
Detected
		9	Zeptometrix 0810160CF
[Iowa3/2002]	1.5E+02	3x	
	A2	20	Zeptometrix 0810163CF
[Iowa14/2003]	1.5E+02	3x	
		27	Zeptometrix 0810164CF
[Iowa27/2004]	1.5E+02	3x	
	B1	3	Zeptometrix0810156CF
[Peru2/2002]	1.5E+02	3x	
		5	Zeptometrix 0810158CF
[Peru3/2003]	1.5E+02	3x	
	B2	8	Zeptometrix 0810159CF
[Peru6/2003]	1.5E+02	3x	
		4	Zeptometrix 0810157CF
[Peru1/2002]	1.5E+02	3x	
		18	Zeptometrix 0810162CF
[Iowa18/2003]	1.0E+02	3x	

--- Page 43 ---
Table 15: Human Rhinovirus and Enterovirus Isolates Tested and Detected
Species Serotype Test Concentration Result
Source [Strain/Location/Year]
(copies/mL) X LoD
Human Rhinovirusa
1 Zeptometrix 0810012CFN [1A] 2.2E+03 1x
2 ATCC VR-482 [HGP] 1.7E+03 3x
7 ATCC VR-1601 [68-CV11] 1.7E+03 3x
16 ATCC VR-283 [11757/Washington DC/1960] 1.7E+03 3x
A 34 ATCC VR-507b [137-3] 1.7E+03 3x Human
Rhinovirus/
57 ATCC VR-1600 [Ch47] 1.7E+03 3x
Enterovirus
77 ATCC VR-1187 [130-63] 1.7E+03 3x
Detected
85 ATCC VR-1195 [50-525-CV54] 1.7E+03 3x
3 ATCC VR-483 [FEB] 1.7E+03 3x
14 ATCC VR-284 [1059/S Carolina/1959] 1.7E+03 3x
17 ATCC VR-1663 [33342/N Carolina/1959] 1.7E+03 3x
B 27 ATCC VR-1137 [5870] 1.7E+03 3x
42 ATCC VR-338 [56822] 1.7E+03 3x
83 ATCC VR-1193 [Baylor 7] 1.7E+03 3x
Enterovirus
Coxsackievirus 10 ATCC VR-168 [NY/1950] 1.7E+03 3x
A
Enterovirus 71 ATCC VR-1432 [H] 1.7E+03 3x
Coxsackievirus A9 Zeptometrix 0810017CF 1.7E+03 3x
Coxsackievirus B3 Zeptometrix 0810074CF 1.7E+03 3x
Coxsackievirus B4 Zeptometrix 0810075CF 1.7E+03 3x Human
B
Echovirus 6 Zeptometrix 0810076CF 5.7E+02 1x Rhinovirus/
Echovirus 9 Zeptometrix 0810077CF 1.7E+03 3x Enterovirus
Detected
Echovirus 11 Zeptometrix 0810023CF 1.7E+03 3x
Coxsackievirus
ATCC VR-850 [Kuykendall/California/1952] 1.7E+03 3x
A21
C Coxsackievirus
ATCC VR-583 [DN-19/Texas/1963] 1.7E+03 3x
A24
D Enterovirus 68 ATCC VR-1823 [US/MO/2014-18947] 1.7E+03 3x
a
The concentration used for Human Rhinovirus isolate testing was based on 3× the Enterovirus LoD concentration (5.7E+02 copies/mL).
Table 16: Influenza A Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Concentration Result
Organism Subtype Source [Strain/Location/Year]
(copies/mL) xLoD
Human
Influenza A
Influenza ATCC VR-219 [NWS/1933] 3.1E+02 3x
Detected
A H1N1 ATCC VR-95 [PR/8/1934a] 1.0E+03 1.5xa
43

[Table 1 on page 43]
Species	Serotype		Test Concentration		Result
		Source [Strain/Location/Year]			
			(copies/mL)	X LoD	
					
Human Rhinovirusa					
A	1	Zeptometrix 0810012CFN [1A]	2.2E+03	1x	Human
Rhinovirus/
Enterovirus
Detected
	2	ATCC VR-482 [HGP]	1.7E+03	3x	
	7	ATCC VR-1601 [68-CV11]	1.7E+03	3x	
	16	ATCC VR-283 [11757/Washington DC/1960]	1.7E+03	3x	
	34	ATCC VR-507b [137-3]	1.7E+03	3x	
	57	ATCC VR-1600 [Ch47]	1.7E+03	3x	
	77	ATCC VR-1187 [130-63]	1.7E+03	3x	
	85	ATCC VR-1195 [50-525-CV54]	1.7E+03	3x	
B	3	ATCC VR-483 [FEB]	1.7E+03	3x	
	14	ATCC VR-284 [1059/S Carolina/1959]	1.7E+03	3x	
	17	ATCC VR-1663 [33342/N Carolina/1959]	1.7E+03	3x	
	27	ATCC VR-1137 [5870]	1.7E+03	3x	
	42	ATCC VR-338 [56822]	1.7E+03	3x	
	83	ATCC VR-1193 [Baylor 7]	1.7E+03	3x	
Enterovirus					
A	Coxsackievirus 10	ATCC VR-168 [NY/1950]	1.7E+03	3x	Human
Rhinovirus/
Enterovirus
Detected
	Enterovirus 71	ATCC VR-1432 [H]	1.7E+03	3x	
B	Coxsackievirus A9	Zeptometrix 0810017CF	1.7E+03	3x	
	Coxsackievirus B3	Zeptometrix 0810074CF	1.7E+03	3x	
	Coxsackievirus B4	Zeptometrix 0810075CF	1.7E+03	3x	
	Echovirus 6	Zeptometrix 0810076CF	5.7E+02	1x	
	Echovirus 9	Zeptometrix 0810077CF	1.7E+03	3x	
	Echovirus 11	Zeptometrix 0810023CF	1.7E+03	3x	
C	Coxsackievirus
A21	ATCC VR-850 [Kuykendall/California/1952]	1.7E+03	3x	
	Coxsackievirus
A24	ATCC VR-583 [DN-19/Texas/1963]	1.7E+03	3x	
D	Enterovirus 68	ATCC VR-1823 [US/MO/2014-18947]	1.7E+03	3x	

[Table 2 on page 43]
			Test Concentration		Result
Organism	Subtype	Source [Strain/Location/Year]			
			(copies/mL)	xLoD	
					
Influenza
A	Human				Influenza A
Detected
	H1N1	ATCC VR-219 [NWS/1933]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-95 [PR/8/1934a]	1.0E+03	1.5xa	

--- Page 44 ---
Test Concentration Result
Organism Subtype Source [Strain/Location/Year]
(copies/mL) xLoD
ATCC VR-96 [Wiess/1943] 3.1E+02 3x
ATCC VR-97 [FM/1/1947] 3.1E+02 3x
ATCC VR-98 [Mal/302/1954] 3.1E+02 3x
ATCC VR-546 [Denver/1/1957] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810036CF [New
3.1E+02 3x
Caledonia/20/1999]
Zeptometrix 0810036CFN [Solomon
3.1E+02 3x
Islands/3/2006]
Zeptometrix 0810244CF [Brisbane/59/2007] 3.1E+02 3x
BEI NR-3478b [Kilbourne F63 A/NWS/1934
H1N2 (HA) x 3.1E+02 3x
A/Rockefeller Institute/5/1957 (NA)]
Zeptometrix 0810249CF [SwineNY/03/2009] 6.6E+02 1x
Zeptometrix 0810109CFJ [Canada/6294/2009] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810165CF [California/07/2009] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810166CF [Mexico/4108/2009] 3.1E+02 3x
H1N1pdm09 BEI NR-19823c [Netherlands/2629/2009] 3.1E+02 3x
BEI NR-42938d [Georgia/F32551/2012] 3.1E+02 3x
BEI NR-44345e [Hong Kong/H090-761-
1.0E+03 1.5xa
V1(0)/2009]
ATCC VR-810 [Port Chalmers/1/1973] 1.0E+02 1x
ATCC VR-776 [Alice (live attenuated vaccine)] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810238CF [Texas /50/2012] 3.1E+02 3x
ATCC VR-547 [Aichi/2/1968] 3.1E+02 3x
H3N2 ATCC VR-544 [Hong Kong/8/1968] 3.1E+02 3x
ATCC VR-822 [Victoria/3/1975] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810252CF [Wisconsin/67/2005] 3.1E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810138CF [Brisbane/10/2007] 3.1E+02 3x
H3N2v ODHL1 [Ohio/2012] 3.1E+02 3x
Avian
H2N2 BEI NR-2775f [Japan/305/1957] 3.1E+02 3x
H2N3 MRIGlobalg [Mallard/Alberta/79/2003] 3.1E+02 3x
H5N1 MRIGlobalg [Chicken/Yunnan/1251/2003] 3.1E+02 3x
MRIGlobalg [Northern
H5N2 3.1E+02 3x
pintail/Washinton/40964/2014]
H5N3 BEI NR-9682h [Duck/Singapore/645/97] 3.1E+02 3x
44

[Table 1 on page 44]
			Test Concentration		Result
Organism	Subtype	Source [Strain/Location/Year]			
			(copies/mL)	xLoD	
					
		ATCC VR-96 [Wiess/1943]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-97 [FM/1/1947]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-98 [Mal/302/1954]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-546 [Denver/1/1957]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810036CF [New
Caledonia/20/1999]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810036CFN [Solomon
Islands/3/2006]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810244CF [Brisbane/59/2007]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H1N2	BEI NR-3478b [Kilbourne F63 A/NWS/1934
(HA) x
A/Rockefeller Institute/5/1957 (NA)]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H1N1pdm09	Zeptometrix 0810249CF [SwineNY/03/2009]	6.6E+02	1x	
		Zeptometrix 0810109CFJ [Canada/6294/2009]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810165CF [California/07/2009]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810166CF [Mexico/4108/2009]	3.1E+02	3x	
		BEI NR-19823c [Netherlands/2629/2009]	3.1E+02	3x	
		BEI NR-42938d [Georgia/F32551/2012]	3.1E+02	3x	
		BEI NR-44345e [Hong Kong/H090-761-
V1(0)/2009]	1.0E+03	1.5xa	
	H3N2	ATCC VR-810 [Port Chalmers/1/1973]	1.0E+02	1x	
		ATCC VR-776 [Alice (live attenuated vaccine)]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810238CF [Texas /50/2012]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-547 [Aichi/2/1968]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-544 [Hong Kong/8/1968]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-822 [Victoria/3/1975]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810252CF [Wisconsin/67/2005]	3.1E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810138CF [Brisbane/10/2007]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H3N2v	ODHL1 [Ohio/2012]	3.1E+02	3x	
	Avian				
	H2N2	BEI NR-2775f [Japan/305/1957]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H2N3	MRIGlobalg [Mallard/Alberta/79/2003]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H5N1	MRIGlobalg [Chicken/Yunnan/1251/2003]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H5N2	MRIGlobalg [Northern
pintail/Washinton/40964/2014]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H5N3	BEI NR-9682h [Duck/Singapore/645/97]	3.1E+02	3x	

--- Page 45 ---
Test Concentration Result
Organism Subtype Source [Strain/Location/Year]
(copies/mL) xLoD
MRIGlobalg [Gyrfalcon/Washing-ton/41088-
H5N8 3.1E+02 3x
6/2014]
H7N7 MRIGlobalg [Netherlands/219/2003] 3.1E+02 3x
H7N9 MRIGlobalg [Anhui/01/2013] 3.1E+02 3x
H10N7 BEI NR-2765i [Chicken/Germany/N/49] 3.1E+02 3x
Swine
ATCC VR-333 [Swine/Iowa/15/1930] 3.1E+02 3x
H1N1 Swine
ATCC VR-99 [Swine/1976/1931] 3.1E+02 3x
a. 1.5x the LoD for Influenza A H1N1pdm09 Zeptometrix 0810109CFN [SwineNY/03/2009] (6.6E+02 copies/mL).
b. Genomic RNA obtained through BEI Resources NAID, NIH: Kilbourne F63: A/NWS/1934 (HA) x A/Rockefeller Institute/5/1957 (NA)
(H1N2), Reassortant NWS-F, NR-9677.
c. Virus obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Influenza A Virus, A/Netherlands/2629/2009 (H1N1)pdm09, NR-19823
d. Virus obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Influenza A Virus, A/Georgia/F32551/2012 (H1N1)pdm09, NR-42938.
e. Virus obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Influenza A Virus, A/Hong Kong/H090-761-V1(0)/2009 (H1N1)pdm09, NR-
44345.
f. Genomic RNA obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Genomic RNA from Influenza A Virus, A/Japan/305/1957 (H2N2), NR-
2775.
g. Isolate provided and tested by MRI Global, Kansas City, MO.
h. Genomic RNA obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Genomic RNA from Influenza A Virus, A/duck/Singapore/645/1997
(H5N3), Wild Type, NR-9682.
i. Genomic RNA obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Genomic RNA from Influenza A Virus, A/chicken/Germany/N/1949
(H10N7), NR-2765.
Table 17: Influenza B Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Concentration Reported
Organism Lineage [Strain/Location/Year], Source
(copies/mL) X LoD Result
ATCC VR-101 [Lee/1940] 6.3E+02 3x
ATCC VR-102 [Allen/1945] 6.3E+02 3x
ATCC VR-103 [GL/1739/1954] 6.3E+02 3x
N/A ATCC VR-296 [1/Maryland/1959] 6.3E+02 3x Influenza B
ATCC VR-295 [2/Taiwan/1962] 6.3E+02 3x Detected
ATCC VR-786 [Brigit/Russia/1969] 6.3E+02 3x
Influenza ATCC VR-823 [5/Hong Kong/1972] 6.3E+02 3x
B Zeptometrix 0810258CF [2506/Malaysia/2004] 6.3E+02 3x
Victoria
CDC 2005743348 [1/Ohio/2005] 6.3E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810256CF [07/Florida/2004] 6.3E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810255CF [04/Florida/2006] 2.1E+02 1x
Yamagata Zeptometrix 0810241CF [1/Wisconsin/2010] 6.3E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810239CF [2/Massachusetts/2012] 6.3E+02 3x
Table 18: Parainfluenza Virus Isolates Tested and Detected
45

[Table 1 on page 45]
			Test Concentration		Result
Organism	Subtype	Source [Strain/Location/Year]			
			(copies/mL)	xLoD	
					
	H5N8	MRIGlobalg [Gyrfalcon/Washing-ton/41088-
6/2014]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H7N7	MRIGlobalg [Netherlands/219/2003]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H7N9	MRIGlobalg [Anhui/01/2013]	3.1E+02	3x	
	H10N7	BEI NR-2765i [Chicken/Germany/N/49]	3.1E+02	3x	
	Swine				
	H1N1 Swine	ATCC VR-333 [Swine/Iowa/15/1930]	3.1E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-99 [Swine/1976/1931]	3.1E+02	3x	

[Table 2 on page 45]
			Test Concentration		Reported
Organism	Lineage	[Strain/Location/Year], Source			
			(copies/mL)	X LoD	Result
					
Influenza
B	N/A	ATCC VR-101 [Lee/1940]	6.3E+02	3x	Influenza B
Detected
		ATCC VR-102 [Allen/1945]	6.3E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-103 [GL/1739/1954]	6.3E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-296 [1/Maryland/1959]	6.3E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-295 [2/Taiwan/1962]	6.3E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-786 [Brigit/Russia/1969]	6.3E+02	3x	
	Victoria	ATCC VR-823 [5/Hong Kong/1972]	6.3E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810258CF [2506/Malaysia/2004]	6.3E+02	3x	
		CDC 2005743348 [1/Ohio/2005]	6.3E+02	3x	
	Yamagata	Zeptometrix 0810256CF [07/Florida/2004]	6.3E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810255CF [04/Florida/2006]	2.1E+02	1x	
		Zeptometrix 0810241CF [1/Wisconsin/2010]	6.3E+02	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810239CF [2/Massachusetts/2012]	6.3E+02	3x	

--- Page 46 ---
Test Concentration
Organism Type Source [Strain/Location/Year] Result
(copies/mL) xLoD
Zeptometrix 0810014CF 5.2E+03 1x
BEI NR-48680a [FRA/29221106/2009] 1.6E+04 3x
1
ATCC VR-94 [C-35/Washington DC/1957] 1.6E+04 3x
Zeptometrix 0810015CF 1.5E+03 1x
2
ATCC VR-92 [Greer/Ohio/1955] 8.9E+02 0.6x
Parainfluenza
Zeptometrix 0810016CF 1.9E+02 1x
Parainfluenza Virus
BEI NR-3233b [NIH 47885, Wash/47885/57] 5.7E+02 3x
Virus 3 Detected
ATCC VR-93 [C-243/Washington DC/1957] 5.7E+02 3x
Zeptometrix 0810060CF 8.1E+03 1x
ATCC VR-1378 [M-25/1958] 2.4E+04 3x
4 Zeptometrix 0810060BCF 2.4E+04 3x
ATCC VR-1377 [CH-19503/Washington DC/1962] 2.4E+04 3x
a Virus obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Human Parainfluenza Virus 1, HPIV1/FRA/29221106/2009, NR-48680.
b Virus obtained through BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Human Parainfluenza Virus 3, NIH 47885, NR-3233.
Table 19: Respiratory Syncytial Virus Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Concentration
Organism Type Source [Strain/Location/Year] Result
(copies/mL) xLoD
Zeptometrix 0810040ACF [2006] 4.3E+02 1x
ATCC VR-26 [Long/Maryland/1956] 1.3E+03 3x
A
ATCC VR-1540 [A2/Melbourne/1961] 1.3E+03 3x
Respiratory
Respiratory Zeptometrix 0810040CF [Ch-93 (18)-18] 1.3E+03 3x
Syncytial
Syncytial Virus ATCC VR-1400 [WV/14617/1985] 1.3E+03 3x
Virus
ATCC VR-955 [9320/Massachusetts/1977] 1.3E+03 3x
B Detected
ATCC VR-1580 [18537/Washington
1.3E+03 3x
DC/1962]
Table 20: Legionella pneumophila Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL) xLoD
ATCC VR-2282 [TW-183/Taiwan/1965] 6.7E+01 1x
Chlamydia
ATCC VR-1310 [CWL-029] 2.0E+02 3x
Chlamydia pneumoniae
ATCC VR-1360 [CM-1/Georgia] 2.0E+02 3x
pneumoniae Detected
ATCC 53592 [AR-39/Seattle/1983] 2.0E+02 3x
46

[Table 1 on page 46]
			Test Concentration		
Organism	Type	Source [Strain/Location/Year]			Result
			(copies/mL)	xLoD	
					
Parainfluenza
Virus	1	Zeptometrix 0810014CF	5.2E+03	1x	Parainfluenza
Virus
Detected
		BEI NR-48680a [FRA/29221106/2009]	1.6E+04	3x	
		ATCC VR-94 [C-35/Washington DC/1957]	1.6E+04	3x	
	2	Zeptometrix 0810015CF	1.5E+03	1x	
		ATCC VR-92 [Greer/Ohio/1955]	8.9E+02	0.6x	
	3	Zeptometrix 0810016CF	1.9E+02	1x	
		BEI NR-3233b [NIH 47885, Wash/47885/57]	5.7E+02	3x	
		ATCC VR-93 [C-243/Washington DC/1957]	5.7E+02	3x	
	4	Zeptometrix 0810060CF	8.1E+03	1x	
		ATCC VR-1378 [M-25/1958]	2.4E+04	3x	
		Zeptometrix 0810060BCF	2.4E+04	3x	
		ATCC VR-1377 [CH-19503/Washington DC/1962]	2.4E+04	3x	

[Table 2 on page 46]
			Test Concentration		
Organism	Type	Source [Strain/Location/Year]			Result
			(copies/mL)	xLoD	
					
Respiratory
Syncytial Virus	A	Zeptometrix 0810040ACF [2006]	4.3E+02	1x	Respiratory
Syncytial
Virus
Detected
		ATCC VR-26 [Long/Maryland/1956]	1.3E+03	3x	
		ATCC VR-1540 [A2/Melbourne/1961]	1.3E+03	3x	
	B	Zeptometrix 0810040CF [Ch-93 (18)-18]	1.3E+03	3x	
		ATCC VR-1400 [WV/14617/1985]	1.3E+03	3x	
		ATCC VR-955 [9320/Massachusetts/1977]	1.3E+03	3x	
		ATCC VR-1580 [18537/Washington
DC/1962]	1.3E+03	3x	

[Table 3 on page 46]
		Test Concentration		
Organism	Source [Strain]			Result
		(copies/mL)	xLoD	
				
Chlamydia
pneumoniae	ATCC VR-2282 [TW-183/Taiwan/1965]	6.7E+01	1x	Chlamydia
pneumoniae
Detected
	ATCC VR-1310 [CWL-029]	2.0E+02	3x	
	ATCC VR-1360 [CM-1/Georgia]	2.0E+02	3x	
	ATCC 53592 [AR-39/Seattle/1983]	2.0E+02	3x	

--- Page 47 ---
Table 21: Mycoplasma pneumoniae Isolates Tested and Detected
Test
Organism Type Source [Strain] Concentration Result
(copies/mL) xLoD
Zeptometrix 0801579 [M129] 1.2E+03 1x
1 ATCC 29342 [M129-B7] 3.5E+03 3x
ATCC 29085 [PI 1428] 3.5E+03 3x
ATCC 15531-TTR [FH strain of Eaton Agent [NCTC 10119] 3.5E+03 3x Mycoplasma
Mycoplasma 2
ATCC 15492 [Mac] 3.5E+03 3x pneumoniae
pneumoniae
ATCC 15293 [M52] 3.5E+03 3x Detected
Un- ATCC 15377 [Bru] 3.5E+03 3x
known ATCC 39505 [Mutant 22] 3.5E+03 3x
ATCC 49894 [UTMB-10P] 3.5E+03 3x
Table 22: Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex Isolates Tested and Detected
Test Result
Organism Source [Strain] concentration
(copies/mL)
ATCC 9955 [6-561] 1.0E+04
ATCC 19606 [2208 Type strain] 1.0E+04
ATCC 17961 [CDC 7788] 1.0E+04
A. baumannii
AR-Bank #0033 1.0E+04
GRE 1153064 1.0E+04
Acinetobacter
GRE 1062081 1.0E+04
calcoaceticus-
ATCC 51432 1.0E+04
baumannii complex
A. calcoaceticus ATCC 23055 [46] 1.0E+04
Detected
ATCC 14987 [HO-1] 1.0E+04
A. calcoaceticus subsp. anitratus ATCC 15308 [NCTC 7844] 1.0E+04
A. pittii ATCC 19004 [57.071.228 ] 1.0E+04
A. nosocomialisa ATCC 17903 [NCTC 8102] 1.0E+04
A.seifertii CCUG 34785 1.0E+04
a
A. nosocomialis ATCC 700472 was not detected at any concentration. Sequencing suggests the isolate may be mis-identified.
Table 23: Isolates Enterobacter cloacae Complex Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 49141 [AmMs 204] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1143 [Entb 55M] 1.0E+04
E. cloacae ATCC BAA-2341 [1101152] 1.0E+04 Enterobacter cloacae
AR-Bank #0154 1.0E+04 complex Detected
NCTC 13464 1.0E+04
E. cloacae subsp. cloacae ATCC 13047 [Type Strain] 1.0E+04
47

[Table 1 on page 47]
			Test		
Organism	Type	Source [Strain]	Concentration		Result
			(copies/mL	) xLoD	
Mycoplasma
pneumoniae	1	Zeptometrix 0801579 [M129]	1.2E+03	1x	Mycoplasma
pneumoniae
Detected
		ATCC 29342 [M129-B7]	3.5E+03	3x	
		ATCC 29085 [PI 1428]	3.5E+03	3x	
	2	ATCC 15531-TTR [FH strain of Eaton Agent [NCTC 10119]	3.5E+03	3x	
		ATCC 15492 [Mac]	3.5E+03	3x	
	Un-
known	ATCC 15293 [M52]	3.5E+03	3x	
		ATCC 15377 [Bru]	3.5E+03	3x	
		ATCC 39505 [Mutant 22]	3.5E+03	3x	
		ATCC 49894 [UTMB-10P]	3.5E+03	3x	

[Table 2 on page 47]
		Test	Result
Organism	Source [Strain]	concentration	
		(copies/mL)	
A. baumannii	ATCC 9955 [6-561]	1.0E+04	Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex
Detected
	ATCC 19606 [2208 Type strain]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 17961 [CDC 7788]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0033	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1153064	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062081	1.0E+04	
A. calcoaceticus	ATCC 51432	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 23055 [46]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 14987 [HO-1]	1.0E+04	
A. calcoaceticus subsp. anitratus	ATCC 15308 [NCTC 7844]	1.0E+04	
A. pittii	ATCC 19004 [57.071.228 ]	1.0E+04	
A. nosocomialisa	ATCC 17903 [NCTC 8102]	1.0E+04	
A.seifertii	CCUG 34785	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 47]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
E. cloacae	ATCC 49141 [AmMs 204]	1.0E+04	Enterobacter cloacae
complex Detected
	ATCC BAA-1143 [Entb 55M]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2341 [1101152]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0154	1.0E+04	
	NCTC 13464	1.0E+04	
E. cloacae subsp. cloacae	ATCC 13047 [Type Strain]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 48 ---
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
E. cloacae subsp.
ATCC 23373Da [ICPB ED105] 1.0E+04
dissolvens
ATCC 35953b [CDC 1497-78 Type
1.0E+06b
E. asburiae Strain]
ATCC 35957b [CDC 570-83] 1.0E+06b
ATCC 49162b [CDC 992-77] 1.0E+05b
E. hormaechei
ATCC BAA-2082 1.0E+04
E. kobei CCUG 59410 1.0E+04
E. ludwigii CCUG 23050 1.0E+04
a Genomic DNA from E. cloacae subsp. dissolvens.
b See Table 10: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 24: Escherichia coli Isolates and Cross-Reactive Species Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 25922 [FDA strain Seattle 1946] 1.0E+04
ATCC 43888 [CDC B568-73] 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0061 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0086 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0137 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0150 1.0E+04 Escherichia coli
E. coli
AR-Bank #0162 1.0E+04 Detected
GRE 1062016 1.0E+04
GRE 1252008 1.0E+04
GRE 1252009 1.0E+04
GRE 1256018 1.0E+04
Zeptometrix 0801905 [Z136] 1.0E+04
Table 25: Haemophilus influenzae Isolates Tested and Detected
Test
Organism Serotype Source [Strain/Location/Year] concentration Result
(copies/mL)
Type a ATCC 9006 [AMC 36-A-3 [610, PCM 2436]] 1.0E+04
Type b ATCC 10211 [AMC 36-A-1 [572]], Biotype 1 1.0E+04
Type c ATCC 49699 [C 9007] 1.0E+04 Haemophilus
H. influenzaea Type d ATCC 9008 [AMC 36-A-6 [611]] 1.0E+04 influenzae
Detected
ATCC 8142 [AMC 36-A-7 [595, NCTC
Type e 1.0E+04
8472]]
Type f ATCC 700223 [GA1264] 1.0E+04
48

[Table 1 on page 48]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
E. cloacae subsp.
dissolvens	ATCC 23373Da [ICPB ED105]	1.0E+04	
E. asburiae	ATCC 35953b [CDC 1497-78 Type
Strain]	1.0E+06b	
	ATCC 35957b [CDC 570-83]	1.0E+06b	
E. hormaechei	ATCC 49162b [CDC 992-77]	1.0E+05b	
	ATCC BAA-2082	1.0E+04	
E. kobei	CCUG 59410	1.0E+04	
E. ludwigii	CCUG 23050	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 48]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
E. coli	ATCC 25922 [FDA strain Seattle 1946]	1.0E+04	Escherichia coli
Detected
	ATCC 43888 [CDC B568-73]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0061	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0086	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0137	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0150	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0162	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062016	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1252008	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1252009	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1256018	1.0E+04	
	Zeptometrix 0801905 [Z136]	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 48]
			Test	
Organism	Serotype	Source [Strain/Location/Year]	concentration	Result
			(copies/mL)	
H. influenzaea	Type a	ATCC 9006 [AMC 36-A-3 [610, PCM 2436]]	1.0E+04	Haemophilus
influenzae
Detected
	Type b	ATCC 10211 [AMC 36-A-1 [572]], Biotype 1	1.0E+04	
	Type c	ATCC 49699 [C 9007]	1.0E+04	
	Type d	ATCC 9008 [AMC 36-A-6 [611]]	1.0E+04	
	Type e	ATCC 8142 [AMC 36-A-7 [595, NCTC
8472]]	1.0E+04	
	Type f	ATCC 700223 [GA1264]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 49 ---
Biogroup aegyptius ATCC 11116 [180-a [NCTC 8502]] 1.0E+04
Non-typeable ATCC 51907 [Rd [KW20]] 1.0E+04
a See Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 26: Klebsiella (Enterobacter) aerogenes Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 13048 [NCTC 10006] 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0062 1.0E+04
Enterobacter
AR-Bank #0074 1.0E+04
E. aerogenes aerogenes
AR-Bank #0161 1.0E+04
Detected
GRE 1254066 1.0E+04
ATCC 29751a[MULB-250] 1.0E+07a
a
See Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 27: Klebsiella oxytoca Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 13182 [479-2 Type strain] 1.0E+04
ATCC 43086 [Pasco 201] 1.0E+04
ATCC 49131 [AmMS 101] 1.0E+04
ATCC 700324 [LBM 90.11.033] 1.0E+04
ATCC 8724 [NRRL B-199] 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0147 1.0E+04 Klebsiella oxytoca
K. oxytoca
JMI 2523 1.0E+04 Detected
JMI 2661 1.0E+04
JMI 7818 1.0E+04
JMI 10678 1.0E+04
JMI 14611 1.0E+04
GRE 1254054 1.0E+04
Table 28: Klebsiella pneumoniae Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC BAA-1705 [ART
1.0E+04
2008133]
AR-Bank #0068 1.0E+04 Klebsiella
K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0075 1.0E+04 pneumoniae
AR-Bank #0076 1.0E+04 Detected
AR-Bank #0079 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0080 1.0E+04
49

[Table 1 on page 49]
	Biogroup aegyptius	ATCC 11116 [180-a [NCTC 8502]]	1.0E+04	
	Non-typeable	ATCC 51907 [Rd [KW20]]	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 49]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
E. aerogenes	ATCC 13048 [NCTC 10006]	1.0E+04	Enterobacter
aerogenes
Detected
	AR-Bank #0062	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0074	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0161	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1254066	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 29751a[MULB-250]	1.0E+07a	

[Table 3 on page 49]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
K. oxytoca	ATCC 13182 [479-2 Type strain]	1.0E+04	Klebsiella oxytoca
Detected
	ATCC 43086 [Pasco 201]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 49131 [AmMS 101]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 700324 [LBM 90.11.033]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 8724 [NRRL B-199]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0147	1.0E+04	
	JMI 2523	1.0E+04	
	JMI 2661	1.0E+04	
	JMI 7818	1.0E+04	
	JMI 10678	1.0E+04	
	JMI 14611	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1254054	1.0E+04	

[Table 4 on page 49]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
K. pneumoniae	ATCC BAA-1705 [ART
2008133]	1.0E+04	Klebsiella
pneumoniae
Detected
	AR-Bank #0068	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0075	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0076	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0079	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0080	1.0E+04	

--- Page 50 ---
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
AR-Bank # 0097 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0107 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0153 1.0E+04
GRE 1062084 1.0E+04
GRE 1355030 1.0E+04
JMI 328 1.0E+04
JMI 766 1.0E+04
NCTC 13465 1.0E+04
Zeptometrix 0801886 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae subsp. ozaenae ATCC 11296 [AMC 35-E-5] 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae ATCC 13883 [NCTC 9633] 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae subsp. rhinoscleromatis ATCC 13884 [NCTC 5046] 1.0E+04
K. quasipneumoniae subsp.
DSM 28211a [01A030, SB11] 1.0E+05a
quasipneumoniae
K. quasipneumoniae subsp.
DSM 28212 [07A044, SB30] 1.0E+04
simipneumoniae
K. variicola ATCC BAA-830 [F2R9] 1.0E+04
a See Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 29: Moraxella catarrhalis Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 25238 [Ne 11] 1.0E+04
ATCC 25240 [N9] 1.0E+04
Moraxella catarrhalis
M. catarrhalis ATCC 8176 [20] 1.0E+04
Detected
ATCC 23246a [NCTC 4103] 1.0E+05a
ATCC 49143 [Am MS 116] 1.0E+04
a See Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 30: Proteus spp. Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 29906 [1003] 1.0E+04
ATCC 33583 [571101] 1.0E+04
ATCC 35659 [LRA 08 01 73] 1.0E+04
P. mirabilis
AR-Bank #0156 1.0E+04 Proteus spp.
AR-Bank #0159 1.0E+04 Detected
GRE 1254053 1.0E+04
ATCC 13315 [NCTC 4175 Strain Lehmann] 1.0E+04
P. hauseri
ATCC 700826 [CDC 1732-80] 1.0E+04
50

[Table 1 on page 50]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
	AR-Bank # 0097	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0107	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0153	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062084	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1355030	1.0E+04	
	JMI 328	1.0E+04	
	JMI 766	1.0E+04	
	NCTC 13465	1.0E+04	
	Zeptometrix 0801886	1.0E+04	
K. pneumoniae subsp. ozaenae	ATCC 11296 [AMC 35-E-5]	1.0E+04	
K. pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae	ATCC 13883 [NCTC 9633]	1.0E+04	
K. pneumoniae subsp. rhinoscleromatis	ATCC 13884 [NCTC 5046]	1.0E+04	
K. quasipneumoniae subsp.
quasipneumoniae	DSM 28211a [01A030, SB11]	1.0E+05a	
K. quasipneumoniae subsp.
simipneumoniae	DSM 28212 [07A044, SB30]	1.0E+04	
K. variicola	ATCC BAA-830 [F2R9]	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 50]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
M. catarrhalis	ATCC 25238 [Ne 11]	1.0E+04	Moraxella catarrhalis
Detected
	ATCC 25240 [N9]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 8176 [20]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 23246a [NCTC 4103]	1.0E+05a	
	ATCC 49143 [Am MS 116]	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 50]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
P. mirabilis	ATCC 29906 [1003]	1.0E+04	Proteus spp.
Detected
	ATCC 33583 [571101]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 35659 [LRA 08 01 73]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0156	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0159	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1254053	1.0E+04	
P. hauseri	ATCC 13315 [NCTC 4175 Strain Lehmann]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 700826 [CDC 1732-80]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 51 ---
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 33519 [Type Strain CDC 1808-73] 1.0E+04
P. penneri
ATCC 35197 [CDC 1655-67] 1.0E+04
ATCC 29905 1.0E+04
P. vulgaris ATCC 33420 1.0E+04
ATCC 27973 [CDC 1787-64-SC1] 1.0E+04
Table 31: Pseudomonas aeruginosa Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 10145 [ MDB strain BU 277 type strain] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1744 [109246] 1.0E+04
ATCC 19429 [NCTC 6750] 1.0E+04
ATCC 27853 [Boston 41501] 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0054 1.0E+04 Pseudomonas
P. aeruginosaa AR-Bank #0092 1.0E+04 aeruginosa
AR-Bank #0100 1.0E+04 Detected
AR-Bank #0103 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0111 1.0E+04
Creighton University PS28 1.0E+04
NCTC 13437 1.0E+04
a P. aeruginosa ATCC 25619 was not detected at any concentration tested. See Table 11: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel Assays
Table 32: Serratia marcescens Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 13880 [Type strain] 1.0E+04
ATCC 27137 [CDC 3100-71] 1.0E+04
ATCC 43297 [3G] 1.0E+04
Serratia marcescens
S. marcescens ATCC BAA-885 [Type strain KRED] 1.0E+04
Detected
GRE 1659005 1.0E+04
GRE 1659004 1.0E+04
JMI 697 1.0E+04
Table 33: Staphylococcus aureus Isolates Tested and Detected
51

[Table 1 on page 51]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
P. penneri	ATCC 33519 [Type Strain CDC 1808-73]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 35197 [CDC 1655-67]	1.0E+04	
P. vulgaris	ATCC 29905	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 33420	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 27973 [CDC 1787-64-SC1]	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 51]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
P. aeruginosaa	ATCC 10145 [ MDB strain BU 277 type strain]	1.0E+04	Pseudomonas
aeruginosa
Detected
	ATCC BAA-1744 [109246]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 19429 [NCTC 6750]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 27853 [Boston 41501]	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0054	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0092	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0100	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0103	1.0E+04	
	AR-Bank #0111	1.0E+04	
	Creighton University PS28	1.0E+04	
	NCTC 13437	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 51]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
S. marcescens	ATCC 13880 [Type strain]	1.0E+04	Serratia marcescens
Detected
	ATCC 27137 [CDC 3100-71]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 43297 [3G]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-885 [Type strain KRED]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1659005	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1659004	1.0E+04	
	JMI 697	1.0E+04	

--- Page 52 ---
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] (PFGE Type if applicable) Result
(copies/mL)
Staphylococcus aureus representing PFGE Types USA100-USA1200
NARSA NRS705 [PFGE USA100] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS701 [PFGE USA200] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1717 [PFGE USA300] 1.0E+05a
NARSA NRS683 [PFGE USA300] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS662 [PFGE USA300] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS707 [PFGE USA300] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1707 [PFGE USA400] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS691 [PFGE USA500] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS648 [PFGE USA600] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS689 [PFGE USA700] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS668 [PFGE USA800] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1749 [PFGE USA900 96:308] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1759 [PFGE USA900 N7129] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1700 [PFGE USA1000] 1.0E+04
BEI NR-46081 [PFGE USA1100 HIP12899] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1765 [PFGE USA1200 102-04] 1.0E+04 Staphylococcus
S. aureus ATCC BAA-1691 [Not USA100-1100] 1.0E+04 aureus
Methicillin Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA)
Detected
ATCC 10832 [Wood 46] 1.0E+04
ATCC 14154 [Rose] 1.0E+04
ATCC 12600 [NCTC Type strain] 1.0E+04
ATCC 25923 [Seattle/1945] 1.0E+04
ATCC 29213 [Wichita] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-2421 [Mass/2010] 1.0E+04
Rennes 1060728 1.0E+04
GRE 1062519 [SCCmec Type: III / MREJ xix]b 1.0E+04
Borderline Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (BORSA)
SUN1 [Sunnybrook] 1.0E+04
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
ATCC 43300 [F182 Kansas / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-2422 [Worcester MA/2010 / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1720 [MRSA252 / SCCmec Type: II / PFGE
1.0E+04
USA200]
NARSA NRS745 [CA-629 / SCCmec Type: V] 1.0E+04
52

[Table 1 on page 52]
			
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain] (PFGE Type if applicable)		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
			
	Staphylococcus aureus representing PFGE Types USA100-USA1200		
	NARSA NRS705 [PFGE USA100]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS701 [PFGE USA200]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1717 [PFGE USA300]	1.0E+05a	
	NARSA NRS683 [PFGE USA300]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS662 [PFGE USA300]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS707 [PFGE USA300]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1707 [PFGE USA400]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS691 [PFGE USA500]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS648 [PFGE USA600]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS689 [PFGE USA700]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS668 [PFGE USA800]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1749 [PFGE USA900 96:308]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1759 [PFGE USA900 N7129]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1700 [PFGE USA1000]	1.0E+04	
	BEI NR-46081 [PFGE USA1100 HIP12899]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1765 [PFGE USA1200 102-04]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1691 [Not USA100-1100]	1.0E+04	
	Methicillin Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA)		
	ATCC 10832 [Wood 46]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 14154 [Rose]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 12600 [NCTC Type strain]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 25923 [Seattle/1945]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 29213 [Wichita]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2421 [Mass/2010]	1.0E+04	
	Rennes 1060728	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062519 [SCCmec Type: III / MREJ xix]b	1.0E+04	
	Borderline Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (BORSA)		
	SUN1 [Sunnybrook]	1.0E+04	
	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)		
	ATCC 43300 [F182 Kansas / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2422 [Worcester MA/2010 / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1720 [MRSA252 / SCCmec Type: II / PFGE
USA200]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS745 [CA-629 / SCCmec Type: V]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 53 ---
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] (PFGE Type if applicable) Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC BAA-38 [E2125 / SCCmec Type: I] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS686 [MREJ type i] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-44 [HPV107 / SCCmec Type: I / PFGE: Iberian] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-41 [NYBK2464 / SCCmec Type: II / PFGE 100] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS385 [MREJ type ii] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-42 [HDE288 / SCCmec: Type VI / PFGE 800] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-39 [HUSA304 / SCCmec Type: III] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-40 [CPS22 / SCCmec Type: III] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062264 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type iv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1055015 [SCCmec Type: IVa / MREJ type vi] 1.0E+04
GRE 0759084 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type v] 1.0E+04
GRE 0860042 [SCCmec Type: III / MREJ type vii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1052034 [MREJ ix] 1.0E+04
GRE 1151100 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type xi] 1.0E+04
GRE 0960006 [MREJ type xii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1055017 [SCCmec Type: IVa / MREJ type xiii] 1.0E+04
GRE 0759163 [MREJ type xiv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062373 [MREJ type xv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1057114 [MREJ type xvii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062292 [MREJ type xviii] 1.0E+04
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) - mecC+
ATCC BAA-2312 [M10/0061 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-2313 [M10/0148 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC ] 1.0E+04
a. Staphylococcus aureus ATCC BAA-1717 was not detected at 1.0E+04 copies/mL but was detected at 1.0E+05 copies/mL with
accurate bin results. No limitation on reactivity could be identified based on the isolate sequence.
b. MREJ type xix characterized as MSSA. Huletsky A, and Giroux R, inventors; Sequences for Detection and Identification of
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) of MREJ Types XI to XX. EP1934613A4. Jan. 19, 2011.
Table 34: Streptococcus agalactiae Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
NCTC 8017 [MK 104 P] 1.0E+04
Streptococcus
ATCC 13813 [Ia/c Type Strain] 1.0E+04
S. agalactiae agalactiae
ATCC 12403 [III Typing Strain D136C] 1.0E+04
Detected
ATCC 12386 [Grouping strain O90R] 1.0E+04
53

[Table 1 on page 53]
			
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain] (PFGE Type if applicable)		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
			
	ATCC BAA-38 [E2125 / SCCmec Type: I]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS686 [MREJ type i]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-44 [HPV107 / SCCmec Type: I / PFGE: Iberian]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-41 [NYBK2464 / SCCmec Type: II / PFGE 100]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS385 [MREJ type ii]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-42 [HDE288 / SCCmec: Type VI / PFGE 800]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-39 [HUSA304 / SCCmec Type: III]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-40 [CPS22 / SCCmec Type: III]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062264 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type iv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1055015 [SCCmec Type: IVa / MREJ type vi]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0759084 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type v]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0860042 [SCCmec Type: III / MREJ type vii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1052034 [MREJ ix]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1151100 [SCCmec Type: IV / MREJ type xi]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0960006 [MREJ type xii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1055017 [SCCmec Type: IVa / MREJ type xiii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0759163 [MREJ type xiv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062373 [MREJ type xv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1057114 [MREJ type xvii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062292 [MREJ type xviii]	1.0E+04	
	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) - mecC+		
	ATCC BAA-2312 [M10/0061 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2313 [M10/0148 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC ]	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 53]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
S. agalactiae	NCTC 8017 [MK 104 P]	1.0E+04	Streptococcus
agalactiae
Detected
	ATCC 13813 [Ia/c Type Strain]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 12403 [III Typing Strain D136C]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 12386 [Grouping strain O90R]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 54 ---
ATCC BAA-611 [V 2603 V/R] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-2669 [VIII 5030-08] 1.0E+04
Clinical Isolate [Utah/2010/CI03] 1.0E+04
Table 35: Streptococcus pneumoniae Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Serotype Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
3 ATCC 6303 1.0E+04
5 ATCC BAA-341 [SPN1439-106] 1.0E+04
11A NCTC 11900 [Gorman] 1.0E+04 Streptococcus
S. pneumoniae 14 ATCC 700672 [VH14] 1.0E+04 pneumoniae
19A ATCC 700673 [Hungary 19A-6] 1.0E+04 Detected
Non-capsulated ATCC BAA-255 [R6] 1.0E+04
unknown ATCC BAA-1409 [62076] 1.0E+04
Table 36: Streptococcus pyogenes Isolates Tested and Detected
Test concentration
Organism Source [Strain] Result
(copies/mL)
ATCC 12344 [Typing strain T1, NCIB 11841, SF 130] 1.0E+04
ATCC 12348 [Typing strain S43 Type 6] 1.0E+04
ATCC 12384 [Typing strain C203 Type 3] 1.0E+04
Streptococcus
ATCC 19615a [Bruno] 1.0E+06a
S. pyogenes pyogenes
ATCC 700294 [SF370; M1 GAS [M-type 1 T-type 1]] 1.0E+05b
Detected
ATCC 49399 [QC A62] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-595 [MGAS 315, serotype M3] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-947 [MGAS 5005, serotype M1] 1.0E+04
a. See Table 10: Limitations on Analytical Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
b. Streptococcus pyogenes ATCC 700294 was detected in 3/5 replicates at 1.0E+04 copies/mL with 104 copies/mL bin results and 3/3
replicates at 1.0E+05 copies/mL with 105 copies/mL bin results. No limitation on reactivity could be identified based on isolate sequence.
The following tables (Table 37- Table 43) describe the reactivity of the AMR genes assays with different AMR
gene types in various host bacteria. Results are shown for the isolates tested as well as predictions of reactivity with
untested AMR gene types based on in silico analysis of sequences retrieved from public databases from June 2016
to Sept 2016.
54

[Table 1 on page 54]
	ATCC BAA-611 [V 2603 V/R]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2669 [VIII 5030-08]	1.0E+04	
	Clinical Isolate [Utah/2010/CI03]	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 54]
			Test concentration	
Organism	Serotype	Source [Strain]		Result
			(copies/mL)	
				
S. pneumoniae	3	ATCC 6303	1.0E+04	Streptococcus
pneumoniae
Detected
	5	ATCC BAA-341 [SPN1439-106]	1.0E+04	
	11A	NCTC 11900 [Gorman]	1.0E+04	
	14	ATCC 700672 [VH14]	1.0E+04	
	19A	ATCC 700673 [Hungary 19A-6]	1.0E+04	
	Non-capsulated	ATCC BAA-255 [R6]	1.0E+04	
	unknown	ATCC BAA-1409 [62076]	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 54]
		Test concentration	
Organism	Source [Strain]		Result
		(copies/mL)	
			
S. pyogenes	ATCC 12344 [Typing strain T1, NCIB 11841, SF 130]	1.0E+04	Streptococcus
pyogenes
Detected
	ATCC 12348 [Typing strain S43 Type 6]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 12384 [Typing strain C203 Type 3]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 19615a [Bruno]	1.0E+06a	
	ATCC 700294 [SF370; M1 GAS [M-type 1 T-type 1]]	1.0E+05b	
	ATCC 49399 [QC A62]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-595 [MGAS 315, serotype M3]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-947 [MGAS 5005, serotype M1]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 55 ---
Table 37: Isolates Containing mecA/C and MREJ Tested and Detected
Test
Organism Source [Strain] concentration Result
(copies/mL)
Methicillin Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) containing SCCmec
cassette (non-functional mecA variant)
ATCC BAA-2421 [Mass/2010] 1.0E+04
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
(Characterized SCCmec Types)
NARSA NRS705 [NY-12 / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS701 [MN-082 / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1717 [TCH1516 / SCCmec Type: IVa] 1.0E+05a
NARSA NRS683 [GA-298 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS662 [CO-34 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS707 [NY-155 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1707 [MW2 /SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS691 [GA-62 /SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS648 [CA-347 /SCCmec Type:II or IV] 1.0E+05a
NARSA NRS689 [GA-442 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS668 [CO-72 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1700 [HFH-33798 / SCCmec Type: IVb] 1.0E+04
BEI NR-46081b (NRSA NRS484) [HIP12899 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+05a mecA/C
S. aureus ATCC BAA-1691 [HFH-30137 / SCCmec Type: IV] 1.0E+04 and
ATCC 43300 [F182 Kansas / SCCmec Type: II ] 1.0E+04 MREJ Detected
ATCC BAA-2422 [Worcester MA/2010 / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-1720 [MRSA252 / SCCmec Type: II] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS745 [CA-629 / SCCmec Type: IV or V] 1.0E+04
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
(Characterized MREJ Types)
ATCC BAA-38 [MREJ type i] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS686 [MREJ type i] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-44 [MREJ type ii] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-41 [MREJ type ii] 1.0E+04
NARSA NRS385 [MREJ type ii] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-42 [MREJ type ii] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-39 [MREJ type iii] 1.0E+04
ATCC BAA-40 [MREJ type iv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062264 [MREJ type iv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1055015 [MREJ type vi] 1.0E+04
GRE 0860042 [MREJ type vii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1052034 [MREJ type ix] 1.0E+04
55

[Table 1 on page 55]
		Test	
Organism	Source [Strain]	concentration	Result
		(copies/mL)	
	Methicillin Sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) containing SCCmec		
	cassette (non-functional mecA variant)		
	ATCC BAA-2421 [Mass/2010]	1.0E+04	
	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)		
	(Characterized SCCmec Types)		
	NARSA NRS705 [NY-12 / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS701 [MN-082 / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1717 [TCH1516 / SCCmec Type: IVa]	1.0E+05a	
	NARSA NRS683 [GA-298 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS662 [CO-34 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS707 [NY-155 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1707 [MW2 /SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS691 [GA-62 /SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS648 [CA-347 /SCCmec Type:II or IV]	1.0E+05a	
	NARSA NRS689 [GA-442 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS668 [CO-72 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1700 [HFH-33798 / SCCmec Type: IVb]	1.0E+04	
	BEI NR-46081b (NRSA NRS484) [HIP12899 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+05a	
	ATCC BAA-1691 [HFH-30137 / SCCmec Type: IV]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC 43300 [F182 Kansas / SCCmec Type: II ]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2422 [Worcester MA/2010 / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-1720 [MRSA252 / SCCmec Type: II]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS745 [CA-629 / SCCmec Type: IV or V]	1.0E+04	
	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)		
	(Characterized MREJ Types)		
	ATCC BAA-38 [MREJ type i]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS686 [MREJ type i]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-44 [MREJ type ii]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-41 [MREJ type ii]	1.0E+04	
	NARSA NRS385 [MREJ type ii]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-42 [MREJ type ii]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-39 [MREJ type iii]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-40 [MREJ type iv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062264 [MREJ type iv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1055015 [MREJ type vi]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0860042 [MREJ type vii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1052034 [MREJ type ix]	1.0E+04	

--- Page 56 ---
Test
Organism Source [Strain] concentration Result
(copies/mL)
GRE 1151100 [MREJ type xi] 1.0E+04
GRE 0960006 [MREJ type xii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1055017 [MREJ type xiii] 1.0E+04
GRE 0759163 [MREJ type xiv] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062373 [MREJ type xv]c 1.0E+06b
GRE 1057114 [MREJ type xvii] 1.0E+04
GRE 1062292 [MREJ type xviii]c 3.3E+08 mecA/C and MREJ
GRE 1062519 [MREJ type xix]cd 1.0E+07 Not Detected
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (SCCmec Type: XI / mecC
/ mecALGA251 variants)
ATCC BAA-2312 [M10/0061 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC] 1.0E+04 mecA/C and
ATCC BAA-2313 [M10/0148 / SCCmec:Type XI / mecC ] 1.0E+04 MREJ Detected
Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus argenteus
S. argenteus
DSM 28299 [MSHR-1132] 1.00E+05
a. mecA/C and MREJ assays positive in less than three replicates at 1.0E+04 copies/mL, no sequence-based limitation on reactivity
identified.
b. Bacteria obtained through NARSA for distribution by BEI Resources, NIAID, NIH: Staphylococcus aureus, Strain HIP12899, NR-46081
c. See Table 6 for limitation.
d. MREJ type xix characterized MSSA. Huletsky A, and Giroux R, inventors; Sequences for Detection and Identification of Methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) of MREJ Types XI to XX. EP1934613A4. Jan. 19, 2011.
Table 38: Isolates Containing the blaCTX-M gene Tested and Detected
Result
Test concentration
CTX-M Type Organism Source
(copies/mL)
E. coli AR-Bank #0137a 1.0E+04
K. oxytoca GRE 1254054 1.0E+04
AR-Bank #0068a 1.0E+04
CTX-M K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0153a 1.0E+04
GRE 1355030 1.0E+04
CTX-M-1 E. coli AR-Bank #0162 1.0E+04
CTX-M Detected
CTX-M-2 K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0107 1.0E+04
CTX-M-8 E. aerogenes GRE 1254066 1.0E+04
E.coli AR-Bank #0086 1.0E+04
CTX-M-9
E.cloacae NCTC 13464 1.0E+04
CTX-M-14 K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0079 1.0E+04
CTX-M-15 E.coli Zeptometrix 0801905 1.0E+04
56

[Table 1 on page 56]
		Test	
Organism	Source [Strain]	concentration	Result
		(copies/mL)	
	GRE 1151100 [MREJ type xi]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0960006 [MREJ type xii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1055017 [MREJ type xiii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 0759163 [MREJ type xiv]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062373 [MREJ type xv]c	1.0E+06b	
	GRE 1057114 [MREJ type xvii]	1.0E+04	
	GRE 1062292 [MREJ type xviii]c	3.3E+08	mecA/C and MREJ
Not Detected
	GRE 1062519 [MREJ type xix]cd	1.0E+07	
	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (SCCmec Type: XI / mecC		mecA/C and
MREJ Detected
	/ mecALGA251 variants)		
	ATCC BAA-2312 [M10/0061 / SCCmec Type: XI / mecC]	1.0E+04	
	ATCC BAA-2313 [M10/0148 / SCCmec:Type XI / mecC ]	1.0E+04	
S. argenteus	Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus argenteus		
	DSM 28299 [MSHR-1132]	1.00E+05	

[Table 2 on page 56]
				Result
			Test concentration	
CTX-M Type	Organism	Source		
				
			(copies/mL)	
				
				
CTX-M	E. coli	AR-Bank #0137a	1.0E+04	
	K. oxytoca	GRE 1254054	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0068a	1.0E+04	
		AR-Bank #0153a	1.0E+04	
		GRE 1355030	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-1	E. coli	AR-Bank #0162	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-2	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0107	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-8	E. aerogenes	GRE 1254066	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-9	E.coli	AR-Bank #0086	1.0E+04	
	E.cloacae	NCTC 13464	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-14	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0079	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-15	E.coli	Zeptometrix 0801905	1.0E+04	

--- Page 57 ---
Result
Test concentration
CTX-M Type Organism Source
(copies/mL)
CTX-M-22 P. mirabilis GRE 1254053 1.0E+04
CTX-M-25 K. pneumoniae NCTC 13465 1.0E+04
a.
AR-Bank #0137, AR-Bank #0068, AR-Bank #0153 were confirmed to carry the blaCTX-M gene by an independent assay
Table 39: Isolates Containing the blaIMP gene Tested and Detected
Test concentration
IMP Type Organism Source Result
(copies/mL)
E. aerogenes AR-Bank #0161 1.0E+04
IMP E. coli GRE 1062016 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0080 1.0E+04
IMP-1 P. aeruginosa AR-Bank #0103 1.0E+04
IMP
IMP-3 E. coli GRE 1252008 1.0E+04
Detected
IMP-4 A. baumannii GRE 1062081 1.0E+04
IMP-8 K. pneumoniae GRE 1062084 1.0E+04
IMP-9 E. coli GRE 1252009 1.0E+04
IMP-14 P. aeruginosa AR-Bank #0092 1.0E+04
Table 40: Isolates Containing the blaKPC gene Tested and Detected
Test concentration Result
KPC Type Organism Source
(copies/mL)
E. cloacae ATCC BAA-2341 1.0E+04
E. hormaechi ATCC BAA-2082 1.0E+04
P. mirabilis AR-Bank #0156 1.0E+04
KPC
K. oxytoca AR-Bank #0147 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0097 1.0E+04
K. oxytoca JMI 2523 1.0E+04
K. oxytoca JMI 7818 1.0E+04
KPC
K. pneumoniae Zeptometrix 0801886 1.0E+04
Detected
KPC-2 K. pneumoniae JMI 328 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae ATCC BAA-1705 1.0E+04
S. marcescens JMI 697 1.0E+04
E. coli AR-Bank #0061 1.0E+04
KPC-3
K. oxytoca JMI 2661 1.0E+04
KPC-4 K. pneumoniae JMI 766 1.0E+04
KPC-5 P. aeruginosa Creighton University PS28 1.0E+04
57

[Table 1 on page 57]
				Result
			Test concentration	
CTX-M Type	Organism	Source		
				
			(copies/mL)	
				
				
CTX-M-22	P. mirabilis	GRE 1254053	1.0E+04	
CTX-M-25	K. pneumoniae	NCTC 13465	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 57]
			Test concentration	
IMP Type	Organism	Source		Result
			(copies/mL)	
				
IMP	E. aerogenes	AR-Bank #0161	1.0E+04	IMP
Detected
	E. coli	GRE 1062016	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0080	1.0E+04	
IMP-1	P. aeruginosa	AR-Bank #0103	1.0E+04	
IMP-3	E. coli	GRE 1252008	1.0E+04	
IMP-4	A. baumannii	GRE 1062081	1.0E+04	
IMP-8	K. pneumoniae	GRE 1062084	1.0E+04	
IMP-9	E. coli	GRE 1252009	1.0E+04	
IMP-14	P. aeruginosa	AR-Bank #0092	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 57]
			Test concentration	Result
KPC Type	Organism	Source		
			(copies/mL)	
				
KPC	E. cloacae	ATCC BAA-2341	1.0E+04	KPC
Detected
	E. hormaechi	ATCC BAA-2082	1.0E+04	
	P. mirabilis	AR-Bank #0156	1.0E+04	
	K. oxytoca	AR-Bank #0147	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0097	1.0E+04	
	K. oxytoca	JMI 2523	1.0E+04	
KPC-2	K. oxytoca	JMI 7818	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	Zeptometrix 0801886	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	JMI 328	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	ATCC BAA-1705	1.0E+04	
	S. marcescens	JMI 697	1.0E+04	
KPC-3	E. coli	AR-Bank #0061	1.0E+04	
	K. oxytoca	JMI 2661	1.0E+04	
KPC-4	K. pneumoniae	JMI 766	1.0E+04	
KPC-5	P. aeruginosa	Creighton University PS28	1.0E+04	

--- Page 58 ---
Table 41: Isolates Containing the blaNDM gene Tested and Detected
NDM Type Organism Source Test concentration Result
(copies/mL)
E. coli AR-Bank #0162 1.0E+04
K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0153 1.0E+04
NDM
NDM K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0068 1.0E+04
Detected
P. mirabilis AR-Bank #0159 1.0E+04
NDM-1 A. baumannii AR-Bank #0033 1.0E+04
NDM-2 A. baumannii GRE 1153064 1.0E+04
NDM-5 E. coli AR-Bank #0150 1.0E+04
NDM-6 E. coli AR-Bank #0137 1.0E+04
Table 42: Isolates Containing the blaOXA-48 and like genes Tested and Detected
Test concentration
OXA Typea Organism Source Result
(copies/mL)
OXA-48 E. aerogenes AR-Bank #0074 1.0E+04
S. marcescens GRE 1411136 1.0E+04 Gram negative
OXA-48-like
S. marcescens GRE 1411137 1.0E+04 & OXA-48-
OXA-162 K. pneumoniae GRE 1355030 1.0E+04 Like
Detected
OXA-181 K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0068 1.0E+04
OXA-232 K. pneumoniae AR-Bank #0075 1.0E+04
a No reactivity predicted with non-carbapenemase variant types -163, -247,-405, -436, -438, and -439 based on assay design and in silico
evaluation.
Table 43: Isolates Containing the bla gene Tested and Detected
VIM
Test
VIM Type Organism Source Result
concentration
( i / L)
E. cloacae AR-Bank #0154 1.0E+04
P. aeruginosa AR-Bank #0111 1.0E+04
VIM
K. pneumoniae AR-Bank 0076 1.0E+04
VIM-2 P. aeruginosa AR-Bank #0100 1.0E+04 VIM Detected
VIM-4 P. aeruginosa AR-Bank #0054 1.0E+04
VIM-7 E. coli GRE 1256018 1.0E+04
VIM-10 P. aeruginosa NCTC 13437 1.0E+04
f. Analytical Specificity (Cross-Reactivity and Exclusivity)
There is a risk of false positive results due to non-specific amplification and/or cross-reactivity with
58

[Table 1 on page 58]
NDM Type	Organism	Source	Test concentration	Result
			(copies/mL)	
NDM	E. coli	AR-Bank #0162	1.0E+04	NDM
Detected
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0153	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0068	1.0E+04	
	P. mirabilis	AR-Bank #0159	1.0E+04	
NDM-1	A. baumannii	AR-Bank #0033	1.0E+04	
NDM-2	A. baumannii	GRE 1153064	1.0E+04	
NDM-5	E. coli	AR-Bank #0150	1.0E+04	
NDM-6	E. coli	AR-Bank #0137	1.0E+04	

[Table 2 on page 58]
			Test concentration	
OXA Typea	Organism	Source		Result
			(copies/mL)	
				
OXA-48	E. aerogenes	AR-Bank #0074	1.0E+04	Gram negative
& OXA-48-
Like
Detected
OXA-48-like	S. marcescens	GRE 1411136	1.0E+04	
	S. marcescens	GRE 1411137	1.0E+04	
OXA-162	K. pneumoniae	GRE 1355030	1.0E+04	
OXA-181	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0068	1.0E+04	
OXA-232	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank #0075	1.0E+04	

[Table 3 on page 58]
			Test	
VIM Type	Organism	Source		Result
			concentration	
				
				
VIM	E. cloacae	AR-Bank #0154	( i / L)
1.0E+04	VIM Detected
	P. aeruginosa	AR-Bank #0111	1.0E+04	
	K. pneumoniae	AR-Bank 0076	1.0E+04	
VIM-2	P. aeruginosa	AR-Bank #0100	1.0E+04	
VIM-4	P. aeruginosa	AR-Bank #0054	1.0E+04	
VIM-7	E. coli	GRE 1256018	1.0E+04	
VIM-10	P. aeruginosa	NCTC 13437	1.0E+04	

--- Page 59 ---
organisms found in the respiratory tract. The potential for non-specific amplification and detection by
the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assays was evaluated by in silico analyses of available sequences and
by empirical (wet) testing of high concentrations of organisms in contrived samples. The observed and
predicted cross-reactivities for organisms closely related to those detected by the panel and unrelated
organisms that may be present in lower respiratory specimens are summarized in Table 44. Erroneous
results due to cross-reactivity with organisms that were not evaluated or new variant sequences that
emerge is also possible.
On-panel organisms were tested to assess the potential for intra-panel cross-reactivity (Table 45). Off-
panel organisms included species of the same genus or otherwise genetically related to organisms
detected by the panel, as well as normal flora and pathogens that may be present in sputum-like and
BAL-like specimens (Table 46). Antimicrobial resistance genes were also evaluated in conjunction with
on and off panel host organisms.
The final concentration of analyte in the sample (typically ≥1.0E+07 CFU/mL for bacteria and fungi
and ≥1.0E+05 TCID50/mL for viruses) represented levels approximately 100 - 100,000-fold higher than
the LoD or lowest reportable level of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel assays.
Table 44: Observed and Predicted Cross-Reactivity of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Assays
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result Cross-Reactive Organism
Closely-Related Species
Escherichia fergusoniia
Escherichia coli Shigella species (S. boydii, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, S.
sonnei)a
Klebsiella oxytoca Klebsiella michiganensisa
Staphylococcus argenteusb
Staphylococcus aureus
Staphylococcus schweitzeric
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Pseudomonas putidad
Unrelated Species
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Bordetella speciese
Aspergillus niger
Cryptococcus laurentii
Parainfluenza Virusf
Cryptococcus uniguttulatus
Adenovirus Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphilag
CTX-Mh Acinetobacter schindleri
Lelliottia amnigena (Enterobacter amnigenus)
Enterobacter kobei
Escherichia colii,j
Enterobacter ludwigii
Enterobacter cloacae
a. Genetically or phenotypically indistinguishable and often misidentified by standard laboratory techniques. Detected at concentrations
≥1.0E+04 copies/mL.
59

[Table 1 on page 59]
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result	Cross-Reactive Organism
Closely-Related Species	
Escherichia coli	Escherichia fergusoniia
	Shigella species (S. boydii, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, S.
sonnei)a
Klebsiella oxytoca	Klebsiella michiganensisa
Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus argenteusb
	Staphylococcus schweitzeric
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas putidad
Unrelated Species	
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus	Bordetella speciese
Parainfluenza Virusf	Aspergillus niger
	Cryptococcus laurentii
	Cryptococcus uniguttulatus
Adenovirus	Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphilag
CTX-Mh	Acinetobacter schindleri
Escherichia colii,j	Lelliottia amnigena (Enterobacter amnigenus)
	Enterobacter kobei
	Enterobacter ludwigii
	Enterobacter cloacae

--- Page 60 ---
b. Genetically or phenotypically indistinguishable and often misidentified by standard laboratory techniques. Detected at concentrations
≥1.0E+05 copies/mL.
c. Genetically or phenotypically indistinguishable and often misidentified by standard laboratory techniques. Detected at concentrations
≥1.0E+06 copies/mL.
d. Cross-reactivity possible at concentrations >1.0E+07 copies/mL.
e. Cross-reactivity with B. pertussis confirmed at ≥1.0E+06 CFU/mL. Cross-reactivity with B. parapertussis and B. bronchiseptica was not
observed at 1.0E+08 CFU/mL, but possible based on sequence analysis.
f. Cross-reactivity was observed with A. niger, C. laurentii and C. uniguttulatus at concentrations >1.0E+06 copies/mL. Cross-reactivity
with other Cryptococcus species may be possible based on sequence analysis.
g. S. acidaminiphila has not been isolated from human clinical specimens, no cross-reactivity observed with other Stenotrophomonas
species.
h. Cross-reactive product observed only at concentrations >4.5E+07 CFU/mL and only reported if an applicable gram-negative bacterium
is also detected.
i. If observed, results will be reported as Escherichia coli 104 copies/mL.
j. jBased on in silico analysis, cross-reactivity is also possible at high concentrations (>1.0E+07 copies/mL) of other e species (E.
hormaechei, E. aerogenes, E. lingolyticus), Citrobacter freundii, Citrobacter koseri, Escherichia vulneris, and Leclercia adecaboxylata.
Table 45: On Panel Organisms Tested for Evaluation of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Analytical
Specificity (Organisms with the potential for non-specific amplification are shown in bold.)
ON-PANEL
Bacteria
Acinetobacter baumannii Enterobacter hormaechei Klebsiella quasipneumoniae Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Enterobacter kobei Klebsiella variicola Serratia marcescens
Acinetobacter nosocomialis Enterobacter ludwigii Moraxella catarrhalis Staphylococcus aureus
Acinetobacter pittii Escherichia coli Proteus hauseri Streptococcus agalactiae
Enterobacter aerogenes Haemophilus influenzae Proteus mirabilis Streptococcus pneumoniae
Enterobacter asburiae Klebsiella oxytoca Proteus penneri Streptococcus pyogenes
Enterobacter cloacae Klebsiella pneumoniae Proteus vulgaris
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae Legionella pneumophila Mycoplasma pneumoniae
Viruses
Adenovirus B Coronavirus NL63 Human Metapneumovirus Parainfluenza Virus 2
Adenovirus C Coronavirus OC43 Influenza A Parainfluenza Virus 3
Adenovirus E Enterovirus Influenza B Parainfluenza Virus 4
Coronavirus 229E Human Rhinovirus Parainfluenza Virus 1 Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Coronavirus HKU1
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
CTX-M KPC OXA-48-like mecA and MREJ
(Klebsiella oxytoca) (Klebsiella pneumoniae) (Serratia marcescens) (Staphylococcus aureus)
IMP NDM VIM
(Pseudomonas aeruginosa) (Acinetobacter baumannii) (Enterobacter cloacae)
Table 46: Off-Panel Bacteria Tested for Evaluation of FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Analytical
Specificity (Note: Organisms with the potential for non-specific amplification by a FilmArray
60

[Table 1 on page 60]
ON-PANEL					
Bacteria					
Acinetobacter baumannii	Enterobacter hormaechei		Klebsiella quasipneumoniae		Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus	Enterobacter kobei		Klebsiella variicola		Serratia marcescens
Acinetobacter nosocomialis	Enterobacter ludwigii		Moraxella catarrhalis		Staphylococcus aureus
Acinetobacter pittii	Escherichia coli		Proteus hauseri		Streptococcus agalactiae
Enterobacter aerogenes	Haemophilus influenzae		Proteus mirabilis		Streptococcus pneumoniae
Enterobacter asburiae	Klebsiella oxytoca		Proteus penneri		Streptococcus pyogenes
Enterobacter cloacae	Klebsiella pneumoniae		Proteus vulgaris		
Atypical Bacteria					
Chlamydia pneumoniae		Legionella pneumophila		Mycoplasma pneumoniae	
Viruses					
Adenovirus B	Coronavirus NL63		Human Metapneumovirus		Parainfluenza Virus 2
Adenovirus C	Coronavirus OC43		Influenza A		Parainfluenza Virus 3
Adenovirus E	Enterovirus		Influenza B		Parainfluenza Virus 4
Coronavirus 229E	Human Rhinovirus		Parainfluenza Virus 1		Respiratory Syncytial Virus
Coronavirus HKU1					
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes					
CTX-M
(Klebsiella oxytoca)	KPC
(Klebsiella pneumoniae)		OXA-48-like
(Serratia marcescens)		mecA and MREJ
(Staphylococcus aureus)
IMP
(Pseudomonas aeruginosa)	NDM
(Acinetobacter baumannii)		VIM
(Enterobacter cloacae)		

--- Page 61 ---
Pneumonia Panel assay are shown in bold.)
OFF-PANEL
Bacteria
Abiotrophia defectiva Escherichia fergusonii Mycobacterium tuberculosis Shigella boydii
Achromobacter xylosoxidans Escherichia hermanii Mycoplasma bovis Shigella dysenteriae
Acinetobacter haemolyticus Escherichia vulneris Mycoplasma genitalium Shigella flexneri
Acinetobacter johnsonii Fluoribacter dumoffei Mycoplasma hominis Shigella sonnei
Acinetobacter junii Fusobacterium varium Mycoplasma orale Staphylococcus argenteus
Acinetobacter lwolfii Gemella morbillorum Neisseria gonorrhoeae Staphylococcus capitis
Acinetobacter radioresistens Granulicatella adiacens Neisseria lactamica Staphylococcus caprae
Acinetobacter schindleri Haemophilus ducreyi Neisseria meningitidis Staphylococcus cohnii
Staphylococcus
Acinetobacter ursingii Haemophilus haemolyticus Neisseria mucosa
haemolyticus
Actinobacillus Haemophilus Staphylococcus
Neisseria sicca
actinomycetemcomitans parahaemolyticus epidermidis(mecA)
Haemophilus
Actinobacillus hominis Nocardia asteroides Staphylococcus hominis
parainfluenzae
Staphylococcus
Actinobacillus ureae Haemophilus parasuis Nocardia brasilensis
intermedius
Staphylococcus
Actinomyces isrealii Hafnia alvei Pantoea agglomerans
lugdunensis
Actinomyces naeslundii Hafnia paralvei Pasteurella multocida Staphylococcus lutrae
Bacillus cereus Helicobacter pylori Pediococcus acidilactici Staphylococcus pasteuri
Peptostreptococcus Staphylococcus
Bacteriodes fragilis Kingella kingae
anaerobius pseudointermedius
Staphylococcus
Bordatella bronchiseptica Klebsiella michiganensis Pluralibacter gergoviae
saprophyticus
Bordatella parapertussis Kluyvera intermedia Porphyromonas gingivalis Staphylococcus schleiferi
Staphylococcus
Bordatella pertussis Kluyvera ascorbata Prevotella intermedia
schweitzeri
Burkholderia cepacia Lactobacillus acidophilus Prevotella melaninogenica Staphylococcus sciuri
Burkholderia mallei Leclercia adecarboxylata Prevotella oralis Staphylococcus warneri
Burkholderia multivorans Legionella bozemanii Propionibacterium acnes Staphylococcus xylosus
Providencia rettgeri Stenotrophomonas
Burkholderia pseudomallei Legionella cincinnatiensis
(OXA-48-like) acidaminiphila
Stenotrophomonas
Cardiobacterium hominis Legionella feeleii Providencia stuartii
maltophilia
Stenotrophomonas
Cedecea davisae Legionella lansingensis Pseudomonas fluorescens
nitritireducens
Stenotrophomonas
Chlamydia trachomatis Legionella longbeachae Pseudomonas luteola
rhizophila
Chlamydophila psittaci Legionella micdadei Pseudomonas nitroreducens Streptococcus equi
61

[Table 1 on page 61]
OFF-PANEL			
Bacteria			
Abiotrophia defectiva	Escherichia fergusonii	Mycobacterium tuberculosis	Shigella boydii
Achromobacter xylosoxidans	Escherichia hermanii	Mycoplasma bovis	Shigella dysenteriae
Acinetobacter haemolyticus	Escherichia vulneris	Mycoplasma genitalium	Shigella flexneri
Acinetobacter johnsonii	Fluoribacter dumoffei	Mycoplasma hominis	Shigella sonnei
Acinetobacter junii	Fusobacterium varium	Mycoplasma orale	Staphylococcus argenteus
Acinetobacter lwolfii	Gemella morbillorum	Neisseria gonorrhoeae	Staphylococcus capitis
Acinetobacter radioresistens	Granulicatella adiacens	Neisseria lactamica	Staphylococcus caprae
Acinetobacter schindleri	Haemophilus ducreyi	Neisseria meningitidis	Staphylococcus cohnii
Acinetobacter ursingii	Haemophilus haemolyticus	Neisseria mucosa	Staphylococcus
haemolyticus
Actinobacillus
actinomycetemcomitans	Haemophilus
parahaemolyticus	Neisseria sicca	Staphylococcus
epidermidis(mecA)
Actinobacillus hominis	Haemophilus
parainfluenzae	Nocardia asteroides	Staphylococcus hominis
Actinobacillus ureae	Haemophilus parasuis	Nocardia brasilensis	Staphylococcus
intermedius
Actinomyces isrealii	Hafnia alvei	Pantoea agglomerans	Staphylococcus
lugdunensis
Actinomyces naeslundii	Hafnia paralvei	Pasteurella multocida	Staphylococcus lutrae
Bacillus cereus	Helicobacter pylori	Pediococcus acidilactici	Staphylococcus pasteuri
Bacteriodes fragilis	Kingella kingae	Peptostreptococcus
anaerobius	Staphylococcus
pseudointermedius
Bordatella bronchiseptica	Klebsiella michiganensis	Pluralibacter gergoviae	Staphylococcus
saprophyticus
Bordatella parapertussis	Kluyvera intermedia	Porphyromonas gingivalis	Staphylococcus schleiferi
Bordatella pertussis	Kluyvera ascorbata	Prevotella intermedia	Staphylococcus
schweitzeri
Burkholderia cepacia	Lactobacillus acidophilus	Prevotella melaninogenica	Staphylococcus sciuri
Burkholderia mallei	Leclercia adecarboxylata	Prevotella oralis	Staphylococcus warneri
Burkholderia multivorans	Legionella bozemanii	Propionibacterium acnes	Staphylococcus xylosus
Burkholderia pseudomallei	Legionella cincinnatiensis	Providencia rettgeri
(OXA-48-like)	Stenotrophomonas
acidaminiphila
Cardiobacterium hominis	Legionella feeleii	Providencia stuartii	Stenotrophomonas
maltophilia
Cedecea davisae	Legionella lansingensis	Pseudomonas fluorescens	Stenotrophomonas
nitritireducens
Chlamydia trachomatis	Legionella longbeachae	Pseudomonas luteola	Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila
Chlamydophila psittaci	Legionella micdadei	Pseudomonas nitroreducens	Streptococcus equi

--- Page 62 ---
OFF-PANEL
subsp. zooepidemicus
Citrobacter freundii (KPC) Legionella wadsworthii Pseudomonas oryzihabitans Streptococcus mitis
Citrobacter koseri
Lelliottia nimipressuralis Pseudomonas pertucinogena Streptococcus mutans
(OXA-48-like)
Lelliottia amnigena
Citrobacter sedlakii Pseudomonas putida (IMP) Streptococcus oralis
(Enterobacter amnigenus)
Citrobacter werkmanii Streptococcus
Leuconostoc lactis Pseudomonas stutzeri
(VIM) parasanguinis
Streptococcus
Clostridium difficile Listeria monocytogenes Ralstonia pickettii
pseudopneumoniae
Clostridium perfringens Macrococcus caseolyticus Raoultella ornithinolytica Streptococcus salivarius
Corynebacterium diptheriae Micrococcus luteus Raoultella planticola Streptococcus sanguinis
Corynebacterium genitalium Moraxella equi Raoultella terrigena Streptococcus tigurinus
Corynebacterium
Moraxella lacunata Rhodococcus equi Streptomyces anulatus
pseudodiptherticum
Corynebacterium
Moraxella lincolnii Rothia mucilaginosa Treponema denticola
urealyticum
Moraxella Salmonella enterica
Cronobacter sakazakii Ureaplasma parvum
nonliquiefaciens (CTX-M)
Morganella morganii
Eikenella corrodens Serratia fonticola Ureaplasma urealyticum
(NDM)
Mycobacterium
Enterobacter cancerogenus Serratia liquefaciens Vagococcus fluvialis
africanum
Enterobacter massiliensis Mycobacterium bovis Serratia odorifera Veillonella parvula
Enterobacter soli Mycobacterium caprae Serratia plymuthica Yersinia enterocolitica
Yersinia
Enterococcus faecium Mycobacterium microti Serratia rubidaea
pseudotuberculosis
Enterococcus faecalis
Viruses
Human Papillomavirus
Bocavirus Hantavirus Mumps virus
(HPV)
Cytomegalovirus Herpes simplex virus 1 Influenza C Varicella zoster virus
Middle East Respiratory Severe Acute Respiratory
Human Immunodeficiency
Syndrome Coronavirus Syndrome Coronavirus
Epstein Barr virus Virus (HIV)
(MERS- CoV) (SARS-CoV)
German Measles Virus
Measles Virus (Rubeola) Fusarium kyushense Pneumocystis carinii
(Rubella)
Aspergillus flavus Coccidioides posadasii Histoplasma capsulatum Pneumocystis jirovecii
Aspergillus fumigatus Cryptococcus albidus Paecilomyces variottii Pneumocystis murina
Aspergillus niger Cryptococcus gattii Paracoccidodes brasiliensis Rhizopus microsporus
Aspergillus terreus Cryptococcus laurentii Penicillium chrysogenum Scedosporium
62

[Table 1 on page 62]
OFF-PANEL			
			subsp. zooepidemicus
Citrobacter freundii (KPC)	Legionella wadsworthii	Pseudomonas oryzihabitans	Streptococcus mitis
Citrobacter koseri
(OXA-48-like)	Lelliottia nimipressuralis	Pseudomonas pertucinogena	Streptococcus mutans
Citrobacter sedlakii	Lelliottia amnigena
(Enterobacter amnigenus)	Pseudomonas putida (IMP)	Streptococcus oralis
Citrobacter werkmanii
(VIM)	Leuconostoc lactis	Pseudomonas stutzeri	Streptococcus
parasanguinis
Clostridium difficile	Listeria monocytogenes	Ralstonia pickettii	Streptococcus
pseudopneumoniae
Clostridium perfringens	Macrococcus caseolyticus	Raoultella ornithinolytica	Streptococcus salivarius
Corynebacterium diptheriae	Micrococcus luteus	Raoultella planticola	Streptococcus sanguinis
Corynebacterium genitalium	Moraxella equi	Raoultella terrigena	Streptococcus tigurinus
Corynebacterium
pseudodiptherticum	Moraxella lacunata	Rhodococcus equi	Streptomyces anulatus
Corynebacterium
urealyticum	Moraxella lincolnii	Rothia mucilaginosa	Treponema denticola
Cronobacter sakazakii	Moraxella
nonliquiefaciens	Salmonella enterica
(CTX-M)	Ureaplasma parvum
Eikenella corrodens	Morganella morganii
(NDM)	Serratia fonticola	Ureaplasma urealyticum
Enterobacter cancerogenus	Mycobacterium
africanum	Serratia liquefaciens	Vagococcus fluvialis
Enterobacter massiliensis	Mycobacterium bovis	Serratia odorifera	Veillonella parvula
Enterobacter soli	Mycobacterium caprae	Serratia plymuthica	Yersinia enterocolitica
Enterococcus faecium	Mycobacterium microti	Serratia rubidaea	Yersinia
pseudotuberculosis
Enterococcus faecalis			
Viruses			
Bocavirus	Hantavirus	Human Papillomavirus
(HPV)	Mumps virus
Cytomegalovirus	Herpes simplex virus 1	Influenza C	Varicella zoster virus
Epstein Barr virus	Human Immunodeficiency
Virus (HIV)	Middle East Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus
(MERS- CoV)	Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus
(SARS-CoV)
German Measles Virus
(Rubella)	Measles Virus (Rubeola)	Fusarium kyushense	Pneumocystis carinii
Aspergillus flavus	Coccidioides posadasii	Histoplasma capsulatum	Pneumocystis jirovecii
Aspergillus fumigatus	Cryptococcus albidus	Paecilomyces variottii	Pneumocystis murina
Aspergillus niger	Cryptococcus gattii	Paracoccidodes brasiliensis	Rhizopus microsporus
Aspergillus terreus	Cryptococcus laurentii	Penicillium chrysogenum	Scedosporium

--- Page 63 ---
OFF-PANEL
apiospermum
Blastomyces dermatitidis Cryptococcus neoformans Penicillium marneffei Scedosporium prolificans
Cryptococcus Filobasidium
Candida albicans Candida glabrata
uniguttalatus capsuligenum
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
AmpC OXA-24/40 (non-48-like) SME TEM
(Enterobacter aerogenes) (Acinetobacter baumannii) (Serratia marcescens) (Escherichia coli)
CMY (II) SHV (Klebsiella SPM VAN
(Escherichia coli) pneumoniae) (Pseudomonas aeruginosa) (Staphylococcus aureus)
ompK36 [SHV-12, OMPC]a
(Klebsiella pneumoniae)
g. Assay Cut-off:
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel is part of BioFire Diagnostics’ (BFDX) FilmArray system. The
FilmArray system is designed to interpret the test data and automatically report the test results to the
operator. The FilmArray system uses the results of the Melt Detector to determine each test result. The
Melt Detector is part of the FilmArray Analysis Software and assigns a positive or negative result to
each reaction on the array through analysis of the melt data collected during the test. These positive and
negative results are combined in the FilmArray Analysis Software (using the replicate, assay and
interpretation rules) to report the presence or absence of each pathogen in the panel.
The purpose of this study was to validate the use of this Melt Detector with current optimization
parameters with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. To evaluate the Melt Detector performance, the
observed sensitivity and specificity rates for the individual melt curves and assay calls are reported.
These sensitivity and specificity rates are determined by comparing the FilmArray test results obtained
from well-characterized samples, collected as part of the clinical evaluation and analytic testing of the
Pneumonia Panel, to expert annotation. Annotations (positive and negative calls) for all melt curves and
assay calls were determined by the sponsor.
For individual melt curves, the observed sensitivity and specificity, as compared to expert annotation, of
the Melt Detector is 99.69% and 99.93%, respectively. For the Analysis Software, the observed
sensitivity and specificity, as compared to the expert annotation, of the assay calls are greater than
99.82% for sensitivity and 99.99% specificity. The validation results met the predefined acceptance
criteria of >95% accuracy as compared to expert annotation.
h. Interfering substances:
Potentially interfering substances that could be present in BAL-like or sputum-like specimens or that
63

[Table 1 on page 63]
OFF-PANEL			
			apiospermum
Blastomyces dermatitidis	Cryptococcus neoformans	Penicillium marneffei	Scedosporium prolificans
Candida albicans	Cryptococcus
uniguttalatus	Candida glabrata	Filobasidium
capsuligenum
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes			
AmpC
(Enterobacter aerogenes)	OXA-24/40 (non-48-like)
(Acinetobacter baumannii)	SME
(Serratia marcescens)	TEM
(Escherichia coli)
CMY (II)
(Escherichia coli)	SHV (Klebsiella
pneumoniae)	SPM
(Pseudomonas aeruginosa)	VAN
(Staphylococcus aureus)
ompK36 [SHV-12, OMPC]a
(Klebsiella pneumoniae)			

--- Page 64 ---
may be introduced during specimen collection and testing were evaluated for their effect on FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel performance. Substances included endogenous substances that may be found in
specimens at normal or elevated levels (e.g. blood, mucus/mucin, human genomic DNA), various
commensal or infectious microorganisms, medications, a variety of sample processing substances and
substances used to clean, decontaminate, or disinfect work areas. The performance of the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel has not been established with all potentially interfering medications for the treatment
of lower respiratory tract infections. The effect of interfering substances has only been evaluated for
those listed in Table 47. Interference from substances that were not evaluated could lead to erroneous
results.
Each substance was added to contrived samples containing representative qualitatively reported
organisms and representative organisms with bin reporting. Qualitatively reported organisms were at
concentrations near (2-3×) LoD and those with bin reporting were present at 104 copies/mL (e.g. in the
lowest reported bin). The concentration of substance added to the samples (Table 47) was equal to or
greater than the highest level expected to be in BAL-like or Sputum-like specimens.
Four of the evaluated substances were found to interfere with the ability of the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel to report accurate analyte results; Bleach, MycoPrep, 2% NaOH, and 5% Oxalic acid. Each of
these substances contains chemicals known to react with nucleic acids, altering their chemical structure.
The interference observed was related to the inability to detect the chemically modified nucleic acids.
Treatment of specimens with these substances prior to FilmArray Pneumonia Panel testing may result in
loss of analyte detection, therefore samples that have been in contact with these substances should not be
tested using the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. None of the tested substances were shown to interfere with
the FilmArray Pneumonia function.
Table 47: Evaluation of Potentially Interfering Substances on the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Substance Concentration Tested Testing Outcome
Endogenous Substances
Blood 10% v/v No Interference
Albumin 60 mg/mL No Interference
HCl (gastric acid) 5 mmol/L No Interference
Hemoglobin 2 mg/mL No Interference
Human Cells (K-562 cell line) 3.8E+06 cells/mL No Interference
Immunoglobulins (IgG) 60 mg/mL No Interference
Mucin 16 mg/mL No Interference
Exogenous Substances
Albuterol (bronchodilator) 1.7 µmol/L No Interference
Benzocaine (Orajel) 1.0 % w/v No Interference
Epinephrine (hormone, 8.3 µg/mL No Interference
64

[Table 1 on page 64]
Substance	Concentration Tested	Testing Outcome
Endogenous Substances		
Blood	10% v/v	No Interference
Albumin	60 mg/mL	No Interference
HCl (gastric acid)	5 mmol/L	No Interference
Hemoglobin	2 mg/mL	No Interference
Human Cells (K-562 cell line)	3.8E+06 cells/mL	No Interference
Immunoglobulins (IgG)	60 mg/mL	No Interference
Mucin	16 mg/mL	No Interference
Exogenous Substances		
Albuterol (bronchodilator)	1.7 µmol/L	No Interference
Benzocaine (Orajel)	1.0 % w/v	No Interference
Epinephrine (hormone,	8.3 µg/mL	No Interference

--- Page 65 ---
Substance Concentration Tested Testing Outcome
bronchodilator)
Galphimia glauca
1.0 % w/v No Interference
(Homeopathic remedy)
Guaifenesin (expectorant) 15.2 mmol/L No Interference
Lidocaine 5.1 mmol/L No Interference
Menthol and cetylpyridinium
1.0% v/v No Interference
chloride (Cepacol Mouthwash)
Mupirocin (antibiotic) 6.0 ng/mL No Interference
Nicotine 6.2 µmol/L No Interference
Pentamidine (antimicrobial) 1.5 mg/mL No Interference
Phenylephrine hydrochloride
0.3 mg/mL No Interference
(decongestant)
Tobramycin sulfate (antibiotic) 30 mg/mL No Interference
Zanamivir (influenza antiviral) 426 ng/mL No Interference
Competitive Microorganisms
Actinobacillus actinomycetecomitans 3.8E+07 CFU/mL No Interference
Aspergillus fumigatus 5.5E+07 CFU/mL No Interference
Burkholderia cepacia 1.7E+07 CFU/mL No Interference
Cryptococcus neoformans 2.5E+05 CFU/mL No Interference
Enterovirus D68 1.4E+06 copies/mL No Interference
Haemophilus influenzae 1.8E+07 CFU/mL No Interference
Legionella pneumophila 8.1E+06 CFU/mL No Interference
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 3.5E+04 copies/mL No Interference
Staphylococcus epidermidis 1.9E+07 CFU/mL No Interference
Streptococcus mutans 5.9E+06 CFU/mL No Interference
Streptococcus pyogenes 5.5E+06 CFU/mL No Interference
Varicella Zoster Virus 8.7E+07copies/mL No Interference
Disinfection/Cleaning Substances
Reagent Alcohol 7.0% No Interference
1.0% v/v
Bleach Interference Observeda
(600 ppm chlorine)
Sample Processing Materials
Copan Snotbuster
50.0% v/v No Interference
(active ingredient DTT)
Sputolysin (active ingredient DTT) 50.0% v/v No Interference
SPUTASOL
50.0% v/v No Interference
(active ingredient DTT + salts)
MycoPrep (active ingredient NaOH
50.0% v/v Interference Observeda
+ NALC)
NaOH (decontaminant) 1.0% Interference Observeda
Oxalic Acid (decontaminant) 2.5% Interference Observeda
65

[Table 1 on page 65]
Substance	Concentration Tested	Testing Outcome
bronchodilator)		
Galphimia glauca
(Homeopathic remedy)	1.0 % w/v	No Interference
Guaifenesin (expectorant)	15.2 mmol/L	No Interference
Lidocaine	5.1 mmol/L	No Interference
Menthol and cetylpyridinium
chloride (Cepacol Mouthwash)	1.0% v/v	No Interference
Mupirocin (antibiotic)	6.0 ng/mL	No Interference
Nicotine	6.2 µmol/L	No Interference
Pentamidine (antimicrobial)	1.5 mg/mL	No Interference
Phenylephrine hydrochloride
(decongestant)	0.3 mg/mL	No Interference
Tobramycin sulfate (antibiotic)	30 mg/mL	No Interference
Zanamivir (influenza antiviral)	426 ng/mL	No Interference
Competitive Microorganisms		
Actinobacillus actinomycetecomitans	3.8E+07 CFU/mL	No Interference
Aspergillus fumigatus	5.5E+07 CFU/mL	No Interference
Burkholderia cepacia	1.7E+07 CFU/mL	No Interference
Cryptococcus neoformans	2.5E+05 CFU/mL	No Interference
Enterovirus D68	1.4E+06 copies/mL	No Interference
Haemophilus influenzae	1.8E+07 CFU/mL	No Interference
Legionella pneumophila	8.1E+06 CFU/mL	No Interference
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	3.5E+04 copies/mL	No Interference
Staphylococcus epidermidis	1.9E+07 CFU/mL	No Interference
Streptococcus mutans	5.9E+06 CFU/mL	No Interference
Streptococcus pyogenes	5.5E+06 CFU/mL	No Interference
Varicella Zoster Virus	8.7E+07copies/mL	No Interference
Disinfection/Cleaning Substances		
Reagent Alcohol	7.0%	No Interference
Bleach	1.0% v/v
(600 ppm chlorine)	Interference Observeda
Sample Processing Materials		
Copan Snotbuster
(active ingredient DTT)	50.0% v/v	No Interference
Sputolysin (active ingredient DTT)	50.0% v/v	No Interference
SPUTASOL
(active ingredient DTT + salts)	50.0% v/v	No Interference
MycoPrep (active ingredient NaOH
+ NALC)	50.0% v/v	Interference Observeda
NaOH (decontaminant)	1.0%	Interference Observeda
Oxalic Acid (decontaminant)	2.5%	Interference Observeda

--- Page 66 ---
a. Pouch controls passed but Not Detected results were reported for one or more analytes after incubation of the sample with
substance. Substance(s) are known to chemically interact with and damage nucleic acids (DNA and/or RNA) to prevent
amplification.
i. Competitive Interference:
To evaluate the potential for competitive inhibition between targeted microorganisms, various
combinations of microorganisms were evaluated in contrived samples. The effect of several on-panel or
off-panel microorganisms (fungi, viruses, and bacteria) on detection of analytes in a qualitative and
quantitative sample mixtures were evaluated, with contrived samples serving as the control for analyte
detection and a negative analyte sample serving as the control for whether the spiked
organism/substance is or is not detected by the panel. Most microorganisms were evaluated at high
concentrations, similar to the levels evaluated for potential cross-reactivity in the exclusivity study.
The following analytes were selected for evaluation for competitive inhibition based on the prevalence
of each microorganism in tracheal aspirate specimens. Two sample pools were prepared with multiple
targeted microorganisms at either low or high concentrations in each sample as shown in Table 48.
Table 48: Competitive Interference Microorganisms Tested
Off-Panel
Cryptococcus neoformans Streptococcus pyogenes
Respiratory Syncytial Virus Streptococcus mutans
Varicella Zoster Virus Staphylococcus epidermidis
Aspergillus fumigatus
On-Panel
Haemophilus influenzae Streptococcus pneumoniae
Staphylococcus aureus Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Adenovirus Influenza A
Mycoplasma pneumoniae
Results for samples spiked with high levels of on-panel and off-panel microorganisms (Cryptococcus
neoformans, Streptococcus pyogenes, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Actinobacillus
actinomycetemcomitans, Streptococcus mutans, Varicella Zoster Virus, Staphylococcus epidermidis and
Aspergillus fumigatus) showed no effect on pouch controls and gave the expected Detected and Not
Detected results.
An unexpected Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Detected result was observed in replicate 1 of the
negative sample spiked with a Haemophilus influenzae, but not in any of the other 8 replicates
66

[Table 1 on page 66]
	Off-Panel		
Cryptococcus neoformans		Streptococcus pyogenes	
Respiratory Syncytial Virus		Streptococcus mutans	
Varicella Zoster Virus		Staphylococcus epidermidis	
Aspergillus fumigatus			
	On-Panel		
Haemophilus influenzae		Streptococcus pneumoniae	
Staphylococcus aureus		Pseudomonas aeruginosa	
Adenovirus		Influenza A	
Mycoplasma pneumoniae			

--- Page 67 ---
containing these high levels of this microorganism. In total, expected results were obtained in 8/9
replicates and there was no observable amplification for the Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus assay in the
other replicates, indicating no interference from or cross reactivity with this bacterium. Additional
testing of two more negative sample replicates indicating the Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus Detected
result was not due to the presence of Haemophilus influenzae in the sample.
For samples spiked with Enterovirus, an unexpected Adenovirus Not Detected result was observed in
replicate 2 of the qualitative sample mixture. Two additional replicates of this sample were tested and
the expected Detected results were reported. In total, Adenovirus was detected in 4/5 replicates of this
sample. Analyte Cp values and/or unbinned values for all assays were comparable between the control
samples and those containing Enterovirus. These data indicate that the RNA virus Enterovirus does not
interfere with Pneumonia Panel detection of Adenovirus or other analytes.
For samples spiked with Legionella pneumophila, unexpected Legionella pneumophila Not Detected
and Respiratory Syncytial Virus Detected results were reported in replicate 3 of the qualitative sample
mixture. An investigation into the cause of the unexpected results determined that the sample was
mislabeled and contained Respiratory Syncytial Virus. Two additional replicates of the appropriate
sample were tested and the expected results were reported.
For samples spiked with Burkholderia cepacia a control failure was observed in replicate 3 of the
negative sample. Two additional replicates of this sample were retested and the control failure was not
reproducible. In total, control assays passed on 10/11 tests containing this substance and the expected
Detected and Not Detected results were reported for all contrived samples.
No reproducible effect on control or analyte assays due to competitive interference or cross-reactivity
related to high levels of microorganisms was identified.
j. Carry-over:
A formal carry-over study in support of this regulatory submission for the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
was not performed, since carry-over studies with high positive samples followed by negative samples
have been performed for other FDA-cleared FilmArray Panels (i.e., FilmArray RP, BCID, and GI) for
both the FilmArray 2.0 and the FilmArray Torch systems, and no carry-over has been observed.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison
N/A
67

--- Page 68 ---
b. Matrix comparison:
Due to the challenge of obtaining large volumes of natural negative BAL matrix, artificial
bronchoalveolar lavage (aBAL) was used to prepare samples for analytical studies. To validate that the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results for samples in the artificial matrix are equivalent to those in the
natural specimen type, contrived samples containing multiple analytes were prepared in BAL and
aBAL, followed by serial dilution in 10-fold increments to span a range of at least four concentrations.
The samples containing bacterial analytes were prepared by spiking each analyte into both aBAL and
BAL sample matrices at a concentration intended to yield a bin result of at least 104 or 105 copies/mL,
and the sample was then serially diluted in 10-fold increments to extend below the reportable range of
the assay.
Detection agreement over this titration was evaluated to assess the impact of the matrices on detection at
different concentrations, particularly near the detection or reporting limit of the assays. Determination
of equivalency between the matrices also included an evaluation of the impact of matrix on
amplification crossing point (Cp) values, unbinned values for bacterial assays, and melting temperature
(Tm) values for the amplified products.
A separate matrix equivalency study was performed to compare assay performance for samples
prepared in artificial respiratory matrix (ARM) and samples prepared in pooled natural tracheal aspirate
matrix. Tracheal aspirate test samples were prepared using pools of 4-6 individual tracheal aspirates
determined to be negative for all LRT panel analytes. Both ARM and natural aspirate matrices were
spiked with microorganism concentrations near the LoD for nine representative LRT analytes (between
104 – 106 CFU/mL). Matrix equivalence was evaluated based on qualitative analysis (percent positivity)
and quantitative analyses (comparison of mean assay signal).
Results demonstrate that FilmArray Pneumonia Panel amplification, detection, melting curve analysis,
and reporting of viruses, bacteria, and the antimicrobial resistance genes that they carry is equivalent
whether testing is performed in contrived aBAL or BAL samples. These results validate the use of
aBAL as an appropriate sample matrix for use in performance evaluations of the panel.
3. Clinical Studies:
Prospective Study:
The clinical performance of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel was established during a multi-center
study conducted at eight geographically distinct U.S. study sites from October 2016 to July 2017. A
total of 904 residual BAL (821 BAL and 83 mini-BAL) and 925 residual sputum (478 sputum and 447
ETA) specimens were acquired for the prospective clinical study. FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
performance in BAL and mini-BAL was similar, as was performance in sputum and ETA; therefore,
68

--- Page 69 ---
these sample types are not stratified further in performance tables. A total of 58 BAL and 89 sputum
specimens were excluded from the final data analysis. The most common reasons for specimen
exclusion for both specimen types was reference culture unable to be performed, the specimen was
found to not meet the inclusion criteria after the specimen had been enrolled, or the study site was
unable to complete the Case Report Form (CRF). The final data set consisted of 846 BAL and 836
sputum specimens. Table 49 and Table 50 provide a summary of demographic information for the
specimens included in the prospective study.
Table 49: Overall and Per Site Demographic Analysis for BAL Specimens
BAL
Overall Site 1a Site 2 Site 3 Site 4 Site 5 Site 6 Site 7 Site 8
69
xeS
Male 480 80 7 138 21 75 82 27 50
(57%) (59%) (54%) (55%) (68%) (61%) (52%) (61%) (55%)
Female 366 55 6 113 10 48 76 17 41
(43%) (41%) (46%) (45%) (32%) (39%) (48%) (39%) (45%)
egA
≤ 5 years 23 0 5 0 15 0 3 0 0
(3%) (0%) (38%) (0%) (48%) (0%) (2%) (0%) (0%)
6 - 17 years 27 0 8 0 13 0 4 1 1
(3%) (0%) (62%) (0%) (42%) (0%) (3%) (2%) (1%)
18 - 34 years 70 18 0 17 3 10 10 5 7
(8%) (13%) (0%) (7%) (10%) (8%) (6%) (11%) (8%)
35 - 65 years 470 78 0 152 0 70 88 27 55
(56%) (58%) (0%) (61%) (0%) (57%) (56%) (61%) (60%)
> 65 years 255 38 0 82 0 43 53 11 28
(30%) (28%) (0%) (33%) (0%) (35%) (34%) (25%) (31%)
gnitteS
eraC
Hospitalized 666 116 12 223 9 82 118 25 81
(79%) (86%) (92%) (89%) (29%) (67%) (75%) (57%) (89%)
Outpatient 159 18 0 28 22 31 39 14 7
(19%) (13%) (0%) (11%) (71%) (25%) (25%) (32%) (8%)
Emergency 21 1 1 0 0 10 1 5 3
(2%) (1%) (8%) (0%) (0%) (8%) (1%) (11%) (3%)
Total 846 135 13 251 31 123 158 44 91
a Subject age could not be determined for one specimen from Site 1
Table 50: Overall and Per Site Demographic Analysis for Sputum Specimens
Sputum
Overall Site 1 Site 2 Site 3 Site 4 Site 5 Site 6 Site 7 Site 8
xeS
481 66 54 136 97 14 31 34 49
Male
(58%) (59%) (54%) (56%) (61%) (82%) (53%) (74%) (47%)
355 45 46 105 61 3 28 12 55
Female
(42%) (41%) (46%) (44%) (39%) (18%) (47%) (26%) (53%)

[Table 1 on page 69]
BAL											
			Overall	Site 1a	Site 2	Site 3	Site 4	Site 5	Site 6	Site 7	Site 8
xeS		Male	480
(57%)	80
(59%)	7
(54%)	138
(55%)	21
(68%)	75
(61%)	82
(52%)	27
(61%)	50
(55%)
		Female	366
(43%)	55
(41%)	6
(46%)	113
(45%)	10
(32%)	48
(39%)	76
(48%)	17
(39%)	41
(45%)
egA		≤ 5 years	23
(3%)	0
(0%)	5
(38%)	0
(0%)	15
(48%)	0
(0%)	3
(2%)	0
(0%)	0
(0%)
		6 - 17 years	27
(3%)	0
(0%)	8
(62%)	0
(0%)	13
(42%)	0
(0%)	4
(3%)	1
(2%)	1
(1%)
		18 - 34 years	70
(8%)	18
(13%)	0
(0%)	17
(7%)	3
(10%)	10
(8%)	10
(6%)	5
(11%)	7
(8%)
		35 - 65 years	470
(56%)	78
(58%)	0
(0%)	152
(61%)	0
(0%)	70
(57%)	88
(56%)	27
(61%)	55
(60%)
		> 65 years	255
(30%)	38
(28%)	0
(0%)	82
(33%)	0
(0%)	43
(35%)	53
(34%)	11
(25%)	28
(31%)
gnitteS
eraC		Hospitalized	666
(79%)	116
(86%)	12
(92%)	223
(89%)	9
(29%)	82
(67%)	118
(75%)	25
(57%)	81
(89%)
		Outpatient	159
(19%)	18
(13%)	0
(0%)	28
(11%)	22
(71%)	31
(25%)	39
(25%)	14
(32%)	7
(8%)
		Emergency	21
(2%)	1
(1%)	1
(8%)	0
(0%)	0
(0%)	10
(8%)	1
(1%)	5
(11%)	3
(3%)
Total			846	135	13	251	31	123	158	44	91

[Table 2 on page 69]
Sputum											
			Overall	Site 1	Site 2	Site 3	Site 4	Site 5	Site 6	Site 7	Site 8
xeS		Male	481
(58%)	66
(59%)	54
(54%)	136
(56%)	97
(61%)	14
(82%)	31
(53%)	34
(74%)	49
(47%)
		Female	355
(42%)	45
(41%)	46
(46%)	105
(44%)	61
(39%)	3
(18%)	28
(47%)	12
(26%)	55
(53%)

--- Page 70 ---
Sputum
70
egA
138 0 49 0 80 0 0 2 7
≤ 5 years
(17%) (0%) (49%) (0%) (51%) (0%) (0%) (4%) (7%)
107 0 35 0 64 0 0 2 6
6 - 17 years
(13%) (0%) (35%) (0%) (41%) (0%) (0%) (4%) (6%)
86 15 16 20 13 1 6 5 10
18 - 34 years
(10%) (14%) (16%) (8%) (8%) (6%) (10%) (11%) (10%)
284 51 0 133 1 6 36 20 37
35 - 65 years
(34%) (46%) (0%) (55%) (1%) (35%) (61%) (43%) (36%)
221 45 0 88 0 10 17 17 44
> 65 years
(26%) (41%) (0%) (37%) (0%) (59%) (29%) (37%) (42%)
gnitteS
eraC
682 106 64 219 105 12 52 23 101
Hospitalized
(82%) (95%) (64%) (91%) (66%) (71%) (88%) (50%) (97%)
73 2 14 18 24 2 5 7 1
Outpatient
(9%) (2%) (14%) (7%) (15%) (12%) (8%) (15%) (1%)
81 3 22 4 29 3 2 16 2
Emergency
(10%) (3%) (22%) (2%) (18%) (18%) (3%) (35%) (2%)
Total 836 111 100 241 158 17 59 46 104
All specimens were evaluated with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel at clinical study sites. Refrigerated
specimen aliquots were sent to a central reference laboratory for quantitative reference culture (qRefCx)
and frozen specimen aliquots were also sent to BioFire for evaluation by polymerase chain reaction
(PCR)/sequencing-based comparator methods.
The reference methods used in this study were as follows:
Bacterial analytes were compared to qRefCx to evaluate sensitivity and specificity, and the method was
considered positive for the presence of the organism of interest if it was recovered in culture and
enumerated at a level of 103.5 CFU/mL or greater.
Bacterial analytes were also evaluated by comparison to a single PCR assay for the organism of interest
followed by a quantitative molecular assay that included sequencing (qMol) to assess FilmArray bin
reporting performance. Atypical bacteria and viruses were compared to two conventional PCR assays
followed by bidirectional sequencing. For specimens with an applicable bacteria detected by FilmArray,
AMR genes were compared to a single PCR assay (from the specimen) followed by sequencing. A
specimen was considered to be positive for an analyte if bi-directional sequencing data meeting pre-
defined quality acceptance criteria matched organism-specific sequences deposited in the NCBI
GenBank database (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov) with acceptable E-values. When two PCR comparator
assays were used, any specimen that tested negative by both of the comparator assays was considered
Negative.

[Table 1 on page 70]
Sputum											
egA		≤ 5 years	138
(17%)	0
(0%)	49
(49%)	0
(0%)	80
(51%)	0
(0%)	0
(0%)	2
(4%)	7
(7%)
		6 - 17 years	107
(13%)	0
(0%)	35
(35%)	0
(0%)	64
(41%)	0
(0%)	0
(0%)	2
(4%)	6
(6%)
		18 - 34 years	86
(10%)	15
(14%)	16
(16%)	20
(8%)	13
(8%)	1
(6%)	6
(10%)	5
(11%)	10
(10%)
		35 - 65 years	284
(34%)	51
(46%)	0
(0%)	133
(55%)	1
(1%)	6
(35%)	36
(61%)	20
(43%)	37
(36%)
		> 65 years	221
(26%)	45
(41%)	0
(0%)	88
(37%)	0
(0%)	10
(59%)	17
(29%)	17
(37%)	44
(42%)
gnitteS
eraC		Hospitalized	682
(82%)	106
(95%)	64
(64%)	219
(91%)	105
(66%)	12
(71%)	52
(88%)	23
(50%)	101
(97%)
		Outpatient	73
(9%)	2
(2%)	14
(14%)	18
(7%)	24
(15%)	2
(12%)	5
(8%)	7
(15%)	1
(1%)
		Emergency	81
(10%)	3
(3%)	22
(22%)	4
(2%)	29
(18%)	3
(18%)	2
(3%)	16
(35%)	2
(2%)
Total			836	111	100	241	158	17	59	46	104

--- Page 71 ---
Positive Percent Agreement (PPA) or Sensitivity for each analyte was calculated as 100% x (TP / (TP +
FN)). True positive (TP) indicates that both the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and the comparator method
had a positive result for this specific analyte, and false negative (FN) indicates that the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel result was negative while the comparator result was positive. Negative Percent
Agreement (NPA) or Specificity was calculated as 100% x (TN / (TN + FP)). True negative (TN)
indicates that both the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and the comparator method had negative results,
and a false positive (FP) indicates that the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel result was positive but the
comparator result was negative. The exact binomial two-sided 95% confidence interval was calculated.
Samples for which false positive and/or false negative results (i.e., discrepant results) were obtained
when comparing the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel results to the comparator method results were further
investigated. The discrepancy investigations were primarily performed as follows: 1) for discrepancies
between the Pneumonia Panel and reference culture for bacterial analytes, 2) discrepancies were first
examined to see if qRefCx or FilmArray had observed the analyte but reported it as “negative” or “Not
Detected” because it was below the detection threshold. If this did not resolve the discrepancy, the
results of qMol testing were considered. And if these methods still did not resolve the discrepancy, it
was then investigated in the same manner as other analytes that used molecular comparator (i.e. using
multiple additional molecular assays followed by sequence analysis). The results of SOC (Standard of
Care) testing were also considered. The prospective clinical study results are summarized in Table 51
and Table 52 for BAL and sputum specimens, respectively.
Table 51: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Clinical Performance Summary for BAL Specimens a
BAL
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Reference
Analyte TP/ TN/
Method % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii qRefCx
0/0 - - 839/846 99.2 98.3-99.6%
complex b
Enterobacter cloacae complex c qRefCx 11/12 91.7 64.6-98.5% 822/834 98.6 97.5-99.2%
Escherichia coli d qRefCx 12/12 100 75.8-100% 826/834 99.0 98.1-99.5%
Haemophilus influenzae e qRefCx 10/10 100 72.2-100% 764/836 91.4 89.3-93.1%
Klebsiella aerogenes f qRefCx 6/7 85.7 48.7-97.4% 832/839 99.2 98.3-99.6%
Klebsiella oxytoca g qRefCx 2/2 100 34.2-100% 835/844 98.9 98.0-99.4%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group h qRefCx 15/15 100 79.6-100% 819/831 98.6 97.5-99.2%
Moraxella catarrhalis i qRefCx 0/0 - - 817/846 96.6 95.1-97.6%
Proteus spp. j qRefCx 5/5 100 56.6-100% 837/841 99.5 98.8-99.8%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa k qRefCx 36/36 100 90.4-100% 772/810 95.3 93.6-96.6%
Serratia marcescens l qRefCx 6/6 100 61.0-100% 834/840 99.3 98.5-99.7%
Staphylococcus aureus m qRefCx 46/47 97.9 88.9-99.6% 729/799 91.2 89.1-93.0%
Streptococcus agalactiae n qRefCx 1/1 100 - 821/845 97.2 95.8-98.1%
Streptococcus pneumoniae o qRefCx 5/5 100 56.6-100% 817/841 97.1 95.8-98.1%
71

[Table 1 on page 71]
BAL							
		Sensitivity/PPA			Specificity/NPA		
	Reference						
Analyte		TP/			TN/		
	Method		%	95%CI		%	95%CI
		(TP + FN)			(TN + FP)		
							
Bacteria							
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex b	qRefCx	0/0	-	-	839/846	99.2	98.3-99.6%
Enterobacter cloacae complex c	qRefCx	11/12	91.7	64.6-98.5%	822/834	98.6	97.5-99.2%
Escherichia coli d	qRefCx	12/12	100	75.8-100%	826/834	99.0	98.1-99.5%
Haemophilus influenzae e	qRefCx	10/10	100	72.2-100%	764/836	91.4	89.3-93.1%
Klebsiella aerogenes f	qRefCx	6/7	85.7	48.7-97.4%	832/839	99.2	98.3-99.6%
Klebsiella oxytoca g	qRefCx	2/2	100	34.2-100%	835/844	98.9	98.0-99.4%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group h	qRefCx	15/15	100	79.6-100%	819/831	98.6	97.5-99.2%
Moraxella catarrhalis i	qRefCx	0/0	-	-	817/846	96.6	95.1-97.6%
Proteus spp. j	qRefCx	5/5	100	56.6-100%	837/841	99.5	98.8-99.8%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa k	qRefCx	36/36	100	90.4-100%	772/810	95.3	93.6-96.6%
Serratia marcescens l	qRefCx	6/6	100	61.0-100%	834/840	99.3	98.5-99.7%
Staphylococcus aureus m	qRefCx	46/47	97.9	88.9-99.6%	729/799	91.2	89.1-93.0%
Streptococcus agalactiae n	qRefCx	1/1	100	-	821/845	97.2	95.8-98.1%
Streptococcus pneumoniae o	qRefCx	5/5	100	56.6-100%	817/841	97.1	95.8-98.1%

--- Page 72 ---
BAL
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Reference
Analyte TP/ TN/
Method % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Streptococcus pyogenes p qRefCx 2/2 100 34.2-100% 838/844 99.3 98.5-99.7%
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae q PCR/Seq 0/0 - - 844/845 99.9 99.3-100%
Legionella pneumophila PCR/Seq 2/2 100 34.2-100% 833/833 100 99.5-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae r PCR/Seq 3/3 100 43.9-100% 841/842 99.9 99.3-100%
Viruses
Adenovirus PCR/Seq 8/8 100 67.6-100% 837/837 100 99.5-100%
Coronavirus s PCR/Seq 18/21 85.7 65.4-95.0% 810/823 98.4 97.3-99.1%
Human Metapneumovirus t PCR/Seq 8/8 100 67.6-100% 836/837 99.9 99.3-100%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus u PCR/Seq 52/54 96.3 87.5-99.0% 771/782 98.6 97.5-99.2%
Influenza A v PCR/Seq 10/10 100 72.2-100% 830/833 99.6 98.9-99.9%
Influenza B w PCR/Seq 5/6 83.3 43.6-97.0% 837/838 99.9 99.3-100%
Parainfluenza Virus x PCR/Seq 16/18 88.9 67.2-96.9% 824/826 99.8 99.1-99.9%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus PCR/Seq 3/3 100 43.9-100% 841/841 100 99.5-100%
a. The performance measures of sensitivity and specificity only refer to the bacterial analytes for which the gold-standard of qRefCx was used as the
reference method. Performance measures of PPA and NPA refer to all other analytes, for which PCR/sequencing assays were used as comparator
methods.
b. Evidence of ACB complex was found in all seven FP specimens; one was enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and six were detected by
qMol.
c. E. cloacae complex was observed in the single FN specimen below the 104 bin by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. Evidence of E. cloacae complex
was found in all 12 FP specimens; six were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, five were detected by qMol, and one was detected using an
additional molecular method.
d. Evidence of E. coli was found in all eight FP specimens; six were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and two were detected by qMol.
e. Evidence of H. influenzae was found in all 72 FP specimens; seven were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 56 were detected by qMol,
eight were detected using an additional molecular method, and one was identified in SOC culture.
f. K. aerogenes was identified in the single FN specimen in SOC culture. Evidence of K. aerogenes was found in all seven FP specimens; four were
enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and three were detected by qMol.
g. Evidence of K. oxytoca was found in all nine FP specimens; three were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, five were detected by qMol,
and one was detected using an additional molecular method.
h. Evidence of K. pneumoniae group was found in all 12 FP specimens; seven were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, four were detected by
qMol, and one was detected using an additional molecular method.
i. Evidence of M. catarrhalis was found in all 29 FP specimens; two were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 25 were detected by qMol, and
two were detected using an additional molecular method.
j. Evidence of Proteus spp. was found in all four FP specimens; three were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and one was detected by
qMol.
k. Evidence of P. aeruginosa was found in all 38 FP specimens; 19 were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 16 were detected by qMol, and
three were detected using an additional molecular method.
l. Evidence of S. marcescens was found in all six FP specimens; four were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and two were detected by
qMol.
72

[Table 1 on page 72]
BAL											
				Sensitivity/PPA					Specificity/NPA		
	Reference										
Analyte				TP/					TN/		
	Method						%	95%CI		%	95%CI
				(TP + FN)					(TN + FP)		
											
Streptococcus pyogenes p	qRefCx			2/2			100	34.2-100%	838/844	99.3	98.5-99.7%
		Atypical Bacteria									
Chlamydia pneumoniae q	PCR/Seq			0/0			-	-	844/845	99.9	99.3-100%
Legionella pneumophila	PCR/Seq			2/2			100	34.2-100%	833/833	100	99.5-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae r	PCR/Seq			3/3			100	43.9-100%	841/842	99.9	99.3-100%
			Viruses								
Adenovirus	PCR/Seq			8/8			100	67.6-100%	837/837	100	99.5-100%
Coronavirus s	PCR/Seq			18/21			85.7	65.4-95.0%	810/823	98.4	97.3-99.1%
Human Metapneumovirus t	PCR/Seq			8/8			100	67.6-100%	836/837	99.9	99.3-100%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus u	PCR/Seq			52/54			96.3	87.5-99.0%	771/782	98.6	97.5-99.2%
Influenza A v	PCR/Seq			10/10			100	72.2-100%	830/833	99.6	98.9-99.9%
Influenza B w	PCR/Seq			5/6			83.3	43.6-97.0%	837/838	99.9	99.3-100%
Parainfluenza Virus x	PCR/Seq			16/18			88.9	67.2-96.9%	824/826	99.8	99.1-99.9%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	PCR/Seq			3/3			100	43.9-100%	841/841	100	99.5-100%

--- Page 73 ---
m. S. aureus was detected in the single FN specimen using an additional molecular method. Evidence of S. aureus was found in 69/70 FP specimens; 29
were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 30 were detected by qMol, eight were detected using an additional molecular method, and two
were identified in SOC culture.
n. Evidence of S. agalactiae was found in all 24 FP specimens; seven were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 13 were detected by qMol,
and four were detected using an additional molecular method.
o. Evidence of S. pneumoniae was found in all 24 FP specimens; five were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 18 were detected by qMol,
and one was detected using an additional molecular method.
p. Evidence of S. pyogenes was found in all six FP specimens; two were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, three were detected by qMol, and
one was detected using an additional molecular method.
q. The single FP specimen was negative for C. pneumoniae when tested with additional molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
r. The single FP specimen was negative for M. pneumoniae when tested with additional molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
s. CoV was detected in 2/3 FN and 8/13 FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
t. The single FP specimen was negative for hMPV when tested with additional molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
u. HRV/EV was detected in both FN specimens using an additional molecular method. HRV/EV was detected in 8/11 FP specimens during discrepancy
investigation; seven were detected using an additional molecular method and one was detected upon FilmArray Pneumonia Panel retest.
v. FluA was detected in 2/3 FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
w. FluB was detected in the single FN specimen upon FilmArray Pneumonia Panel retest. FluB was detected in the single FP specimen using an
additional molecular method.
x. PIV was detected in both FN and both FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
Table 52: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Clinical Performance Summary for Sputum Specimensa
Sputum
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Reference
Analyte TP/ TN/
Method % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
qRefCx 10/11 90.9 62.3-98.4% 807/825 97.8 96.6-98.6%
complexb
Enterobacter cloacae complex c qRefCx 11/12 91.7 64.6-98.5% 803/824 97.5 96.1-98.3%
Escherichia coli d qRefCx 23/24 95.8 79.8-99.3% 787/812 96.9 95.5-97.9%
Haemophilus influenzae e qRefCx 16/18 88.9 67.2-96.9% 727/818 88.9 86.5-90.9%
Klebsiella aerogenes f qRefCx 3/4 75.0 30.1-95.4% 823/832 98.9 98.0-99.4%
Klebsiella oxytoca g qRefCx 9/9 100 70.1-100% 817/827 98.8 97.8-99.3%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group h qRefCx 21/23 91.3 73.2-97.6% 769/813 94.6 92.8-95.9%
Moraxella catarrhalis i qRefCx 5/5 100 56.6-100% 761/831 91.6 89.5-93.3%
Proteus spp. j qRefCx 15/15 100 79.6-100% 813/821 99.0 98.1-99.5%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa k qRefCx 103/106 97.2 92.0-99.0% 673/730 92.2 90.0-93.9%
Serratia marcescens l qRefCx 26/27 96.3 81.7-99.3% 782/809 96.7 95.2-97.7%
Staphylococcus aureus m qRefCx 111/112 99.1 95.1-99.8% 631/724 87.2 84.5-89.4%
Streptococcus agalactiae n qRefCx 9/9 100 70.1-100% 793/827 95.9 94.3-97.0%
Streptococcus pneumoniae o qRefCx 16/16 100 80.6-100% 785/820 95.7 94.1-96.9%
Streptococcus pyogenes p qRefCx 6/6 100 61.0-100% 825/830 99.4 98.6-99.7%
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumonia PCR/Seq 0/0 - - 835/835 100 99.5-100%
73

[Table 1 on page 73]
Sputum									
			Sensitivity/PPA				Specificity/NPA		
	Reference								
Analyte			TP/				TN/		
	Method				%	95%CI		%	95%CI
			(TP + FN)				(TN + FP)		
									
Bacteria									
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complexb	qRefCx		10/11		90.9	62.3-98.4%	807/825	97.8	96.6-98.6%
Enterobacter cloacae complex c	qRefCx		11/12		91.7	64.6-98.5%	803/824	97.5	96.1-98.3%
Escherichia coli d	qRefCx		23/24		95.8	79.8-99.3%	787/812	96.9	95.5-97.9%
Haemophilus influenzae e	qRefCx		16/18		88.9	67.2-96.9%	727/818	88.9	86.5-90.9%
Klebsiella aerogenes f	qRefCx		3/4		75.0	30.1-95.4%	823/832	98.9	98.0-99.4%
Klebsiella oxytoca g	qRefCx		9/9		100	70.1-100%	817/827	98.8	97.8-99.3%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group h	qRefCx		21/23		91.3	73.2-97.6%	769/813	94.6	92.8-95.9%
Moraxella catarrhalis i	qRefCx		5/5		100	56.6-100%	761/831	91.6	89.5-93.3%
Proteus spp. j	qRefCx		15/15		100	79.6-100%	813/821	99.0	98.1-99.5%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa k	qRefCx		103/106		97.2	92.0-99.0%	673/730	92.2	90.0-93.9%
Serratia marcescens l	qRefCx		26/27		96.3	81.7-99.3%	782/809	96.7	95.2-97.7%
Staphylococcus aureus m	qRefCx		111/112		99.1	95.1-99.8%	631/724	87.2	84.5-89.4%
Streptococcus agalactiae n	qRefCx		9/9		100	70.1-100%	793/827	95.9	94.3-97.0%
Streptococcus pneumoniae o	qRefCx		16/16		100	80.6-100%	785/820	95.7	94.1-96.9%
Streptococcus pyogenes p	qRefCx		6/6		100	61.0-100%	825/830	99.4	98.6-99.7%
		Atypical Bacteria							
Chlamydia pneumonia	PCR/Seq		0/0		-	-	835/835	100	99.5-100%

--- Page 74 ---
Sputum
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Reference
Analyte TP/ TN/
Method % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Legionella pneumophila q PCR/Seq 0/1 0 - 826/826 100 99.5-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae r PCR/Seq 7/8 87.5 52.9-97.8% 827/827 100 99.5-100%
Viruses
Adenovirus s PCR/Seq 13/17 76.5 52.7-90.4% 815/817 99.8 99.1-99.9%
Coronavirus t PCR/Seq 28/32 87.5 71.9-95.0% 796/802 99.3 98.4-99.7%
Human Metapneumovirus u PCR/Seq 20/21 95.2 77.3-99.2% 812/813 99.9 99.3-100%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus v PCR/Seq 96/96 100 96.2-100% 717/730 98.2 97.0-99.0%
Influenza A w PCR/Seq 13/13 100 77.2-100% 819/822 99.6 98.9-99.9%
Influenza B x PCR/Seq 12/12 100 75.8-100% 821/823 99.8 99.1-99.9%
Parainfluenza Virus y PCR/Seq 28/29 96.6 82.8-99.4% 804/806 99.8 99.1-99.9%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus z PCR/Seq 43/43 100 91.8-100% 787/791 99.5 98.7-99.8%
a. The performance measures of sensitivity and specificity only refer to the bacterial analytes for which the gold-standard of qRefCx was used
as the reference method. Performance measures of PPA and NPA refer to all other analytes, for which PCR/sequencing assays were used as
comparator methods.
b. The isolate recovered from the single FN specimen was misidentified by qRefCx; molecular testing of the isolate identified it as
Pseudomonas fluorescens during discrepancy investigation. Evidence of ACB complex was found in all 18 FP specimens; 15 were detected
by qMol, two were detected using an additional molecular method, and one was identified in SOC culture.
c. E. cloacae complex was detected in the single FN specimen using an additional molecular method. Evidence of E. cloacae complex was
found in all 21 FP specimens; four were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 16 were detected by qMol, and one was detected using
an additional molecular method.
d. E. coli was observed in the single FN specimen below the 104 bin by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. Evidence of E. coli was found in all 25
FP specimens; six were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 14 were detected by qMol, and five were detected using an additional
molecular method.
e. H. influenzae was detected in 1/2 FN specimens by qMol. The isolate recovered from the other FN specimen was misidentified by qRefCx;
molecular testing of the isolate identified it as Haemophilus haemolyticus during discrepancy investigation. Evidence of H. influenzae was
found in all 91 FP specimens; four were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 78 were detected by qMol, seven were detected using
an additional molecular method, and two were identified in SOC culture.
f. The isolate recovered from the single FN specimen was misidentified by qRefCx; molecular testing of the isolate identified it as Hafnia
paralvei during discrepancy investigation. Evidence of K. aerogenes was found in all nine FP specimens; three were enumerated below 103.5
CFU/mL by qRefCx, five were detected by qMol, and one was detected using an additional molecular method.
g. Evidence of K. oxytoca was found in all 10 FP specimens; three were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, five were detected by
qMol, and two were detected using an additional molecular method.
h. K. pneumoniae group was detected in 1/2 FN specimens by qMol. The other FN appeared to be a result of a specimen swap at the central
reference laboratory. Evidence of K. pneumoniae group was found in 43/44 FP specimens; 15 were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by
qRefCx, 21 were detected by qMol, and seven were detected using an additional molecular method.
i. Evidence of M. catarrhalis was found in all 70 FP specimens; one was enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 63 were detected by
qMol, five were detected using an additional molecular method, and one was identified in SOC culture.
j. Evidence of Proteus spp. was found in all eight FP specimens; two were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, four were detected by
qMol, and two were detected using an additional molecular method.
k. P. aeruginosa was observed in 1/3 FN specimens below the 104 bin by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. The isolates recovered from the other
two FN specimens were misidentified by qRefCx; molecular testing of the isolates identified one as Pseudomonas denitrificans and the other
74

[Table 1 on page 74]
Sputum									
			Sensitivity/PPA				Specificity/NPA		
	Reference								
Analyte			TP/				TN/		
	Method				%	95%CI		%	95%CI
			(TP + FN)				(TN + FP)		
									
Legionella pneumophila q	PCR/Seq		0/1		0	-	826/826	100	99.5-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae r	PCR/Seq		7/8		87.5	52.9-97.8%	827/827	100	99.5-100%
		Viruses							
Adenovirus s	PCR/Seq		13/17		76.5	52.7-90.4%	815/817	99.8	99.1-99.9%
Coronavirus t	PCR/Seq		28/32		87.5	71.9-95.0%	796/802	99.3	98.4-99.7%
Human Metapneumovirus u	PCR/Seq		20/21		95.2	77.3-99.2%	812/813	99.9	99.3-100%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus v	PCR/Seq		96/96		100	96.2-100%	717/730	98.2	97.0-99.0%
Influenza A w	PCR/Seq		13/13		100	77.2-100%	819/822	99.6	98.9-99.9%
Influenza B x	PCR/Seq		12/12		100	75.8-100%	821/823	99.8	99.1-99.9%
Parainfluenza Virus y	PCR/Seq		28/29		96.6	82.8-99.4%	804/806	99.8	99.1-99.9%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus z	PCR/Seq		43/43		100	91.8-100%	787/791	99.5	98.7-99.8%

--- Page 75 ---
as Pseudomonas fluorescens during discrepancy investigation. Evidence of P. aeruginosa was found in all 57 FP specimens; 21 were
enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 33 were detected by qMol, two were detected using an additional molecular method, and one
was identified in SOC culture.
l. S. marcescens was observed in the single FN specimen below the 104 bin by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. Evidence of S. marcescens was
found in 26/27 FP specimens; seven were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 16 were detected by qMol, and three were detected
using an additional molecular method.
m. S. aureus was observed in the single FN specimen below the 104 bin by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. Evidence of S. aureus was found in
all 93 FP specimens; 43 were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 43 were detected by qMol, three were detected using an additional
molecular method, and four were identified in SOC culture.
n. Evidence of S. agalactiae was found in all 34 FP specimens; five were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 24 were detected by
qMol, and five were detected using an additional molecular method
o. Evidence of S. pneumoniae was found in all 35 FP specimens; one was enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx and 34 were detected by
qMol.
p. Evidence of S. pyogenes was found in all five FP specimens; four were detected by qMol and one was detected using an additional molecular
method.
q. L. pneumophila was detected in the single FN specimen using an additional molecular method.
r. The single FN specimen was negative for M. pneumoniae when tested during discrepancy investigation.
s. AdV was detected in all four FN and 1/2 FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
t. CoV was detected in all four FN and 3/6 FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
u. hMPV was detected in the single FN specimen using an additional molecular method. The single FP specimen was negative for hMPV when
tested during discrepancy investigation.
v. HRV/EV was detected in 12/13 FP specimens during discrepancy investigation; 11 were detected using an additional molecular method and
one was detected upon FilmArray Pneumonia Panel retest.
w. FluA was detected in all three FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
x. Both FP specimens were negative for FluB when tested with additional molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
y. PIV was detected in the single FN and 1/2 FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
z. RSV was detected in all four FP specimens using an additional molecular method.
A total of 156 BAL specimens and 295 sputum specimens received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Detected result for at least one applicable gram-negative bacterium on the panel and reported results for
CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, OXA-48-like, and VIM; a total of 94 BAL specimens and 196 sputum
specimens received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Detected result for at least one applicable gram-
negative bacterium on the panel and reported results for OXA-48-like, and a total of 116 BAL
specimens and 204 sputum specimens received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Staphylococcus aureus
Detected result and reported results for mecA/C and MREJ. Performance of the Pneumonia Panel AMR
gene assays was calculated by comparing results of qMol direct from these specimens and is shown in
Table 53 (five BAL and four sputum specimens were excluded from qMol analysis due to invalid
comparator results).
75

--- Page 76 ---
Table 53: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Clinical Performance Summary – AMR Genes
(Comparator method: qMol direct from specimen)a
BAL Sputum
PPA NPA PPA NPA
Analyte TP/ TN/ TP/ TN/
(TP + % 95%CI (TN + % 95%CI (TP+ % 95%C I (TN + % 95%CI
FN) FP) FN) FP)
48.7- 97.4- 49.0- 98.0-
CTX-Mb 6/7 85.7 144/144 100 8/10 80.0 280/281 99.6
97.4% 100% 94.3% 99.9%
97.5- 98.7-
IMP 0/0 - - 151/151 100 0/0 - - 291/291 100
100% 100%
34.2- 96.3- 64.6- 98.7-
KPCc 2/2 100 148/149 99.3 7/7 100 284/284 100
100% 99.9% 100% 100%
mecA/C
76.5- 82.5- 90.0- 79.8-
and 40/45 88.9 64/70 91.4 94/98 95.9 91/104 87.5
95.2% 96.0% 98.4% 92.5%
MREJd
96.3- 98.7-
NDMe 0/1 0 - 149/150 99.3 0/0 - - 291/291 100
99.9% 100%
OXA- 48- 96.0- 98.1-
0/0 - - 92/92 100 0/0 - - 195/195 100
like 100% 100%
97.5- 98.1-
VIMf 0/0 - - 151/151 100 1/1 100 - 289/290 99.7
100% 99.9%
a. Performance in this summary table is calculated when any applicable organism is detected in the sample.
b. CTX-M was detected in the single FN BAL and 1/2 FN sputum specimens using an additional molecular method. The single FP sputum
specimen was negative for CTX-M when tested during discrepancy investigation. None of the applicable isolates identified by the FilmArray
or qRefCx from these specimens had evidence of ESBL activity or CTX-M presence.
c. KPC was detected in the single FP BAL specimen using an additional molecular method; the isolate recovered from this specimen (A.
baumannii) exhibited carbapenem resistance but did not carry KPC.
d. Evidence of mecA/C and/or SCCmec cassette genetic elements was found in all five FN BAL and all four FN sputum specimens by an
additional molecular method; three of these also had a MRSA isolate recovered via qRefCx or SOC culture. Evidence of mecA/C and/or
SCCmec cassette genetic elements was found in 5/6 FP BAL and all 13 FP sputum specimens; nine had a MRSA isolate recovered via
qRefCx or SOC culture, and nine additional specimens had evidence of mecA/C and/or SCCmec cassette genetic elements by an additional
molecular method.
e. NDM was detected in the single FN BAL specimen using an additional molecular method; P. aeruginosa was recovered from the specimen
and was resistant to carbapenems but carried only KPC. The single FP BAL specimen was negative for NDM when tested with additional
molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
f. The single FP sputum specimen was negative for VIM when tested with additional molecular methods during discrepancy investigation.
qRefCx isolated one or more applicable gram-negative bacteria from 127 of the 156 BAL specimens
and 230 of the 295 sputum specimens that received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Detected result for an
applicable gram-negative bacterium for CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM. The method used to
assess correlation of the CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM results (Table 54 and Table 55) reported
in the specimen by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel to identification of the gene in the cultured isolates
from that particular specimen was one conventional PCR assay followed by bidirectional sequencing,
performed directly on the isolate.
76

[Table 1 on page 76]
	BAL						Sputum					
	PPA			NPA			PPA			NPA		
Analyte	TP/			TN/			TP/			TN/		
	(TP +	%	95%CI	(TN +	%	95%CI	(TP+	%	95%C I	(TN +	%	95%CI
	FN)			FP)			FN)			FP)		
CTX-Mb	6/7	85.7	48.7-
97.4%	144/144	100	97.4-
100%	8/10	80.0	49.0-
94.3%	280/281	99.6	98.0-
99.9%
IMP	0/0	-	-	151/151	100	97.5-
100%	0/0	-	-	291/291	100	98.7-
100%
KPCc	2/2	100	34.2-
100%	148/149	99.3	96.3-
99.9%	7/7	100	64.6-
100%	284/284	100	98.7-
100%
mecA/C
and
MREJd	40/45	88.9	76.5-
95.2%	64/70	91.4	82.5-
96.0%	94/98	95.9	90.0-
98.4%	91/104	87.5	79.8-
92.5%
NDMe	0/1	0	-	149/150	99.3	96.3-
99.9%	0/0	-	-	291/291	100	98.7-
100%
OXA- 48-
like	0/0	-	-	92/92	100	96.0-
100%	0/0	-	-	195/195	100	98.1-
100%
VIMf	0/0	-	-	151/151	100	97.5-
100%	1/1	100	-	289/290	99.7	98.1-
99.9%

--- Page 77 ---
Table 54: CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM Performance Table
(PCR/seq on cultured isolate(s) from BAL specimens)
BAL
Overall
Applicable Bacteria
CTX-M IMP KPC NDM OXA-48-like VIM (any resistance
Result N
gene)
(FilmArray)
PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA
Overall 5/5 118/122
(any 4/4 121/123 0/0 127/127 1/1 124/126 0/0 0/0 127/127 0/0 127/127 (100%) (96.7%)
127 127/127 (100%)
applicable bacteria (100%) (98.4%) (-) (100%) (100%) (98.4%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) [56.6- [91.9-
Detected)a 100%] 98.7%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus- baumannii 0 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
complex
Enterobacter cloacae 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9
9 9/9 (100%)
complex (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
4/4 8/8 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 0/0 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 4/4 8/8
Escherichia coli 12 12/12 (100%)
(100%) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%)
0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7
Klebsiella aerogenes 7 7/7 (100%)
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2
Klebsiella oxytoca 2 2/2 (100%)
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14
14 14/14 (100%)
group (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
Proteus spp. 6 6/6 (100%)
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 42/43 0/0 43/43 0/0 43/43 0/0 0/0 43/43 0/0 43/43 0/0 42/43
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 43 43/43 (100%)
(-) (97.7%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (97.7%)
0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
Serratia marcescens 6 6/6 (100%)
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 27/28b 0/0 28/28 1/1c 25/27d 0/0 0/0 28/28 0/0 28/28 1/1 24/27
Polymicrobial specimens 28 28/28 (100%)
(-) (96.4%) (-) (100%) (100%) (92.6%) (-) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (88.9%)
a. An additional nine specimens had no applicable bacteria detected by FilmArray, but had one or more applicable bacteria isolated by qRefCx; no resistance markers
were identified in the cultured isolate(s) by PCR/seq from these specimens
b. One specimen E. cloacae complex and K. pneumoniae group detected by FilmArray (E. cloacae complex isolated by qRefCx; CTX-M was not identified in this
isolate by PCR/seq)
c. E. cloacae complex and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (KPC identified from the E. cloacae isolate by PCR/seq)
d. One specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex and egroup detected by FilmArray (A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex isolated by qRefCx; KPC was not
identified in this isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen Proteus spp. and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; KPC was not
identified in this isolated by PCR/seq)
77

[Table 1 on page 77]
BAL															
														Overall	
Applicable Bacteria															
		CTX-M		IMP		KPC		NDM		OXA-48-like		VIM		(any resistance	
Result	N														
														gene)	
(FilmArray)															
		PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA
															
Overall
(any
applicable bacteria
Detected)a	127	4/4
(100%)	121/123
(98.4%)	0/0
(-)	127/127
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	124/126
(98.4%)	0/0
(-)	127/127 (100%)	0/0
(-)	127/127
(100%)	0/0
(-)	127/127
(100%)	5/5
(100%)
[56.6-
100%]	118/122
(96.7%)
[91.9-
98.7%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus- baumannii
complex	0	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Enterobacter cloacae
complex	9	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9 (100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)
Escherichia coli	12	4/4
(100%)	8/8
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12 (100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	4/4
(100%)	8/8
(100%)
Klebsiella aerogenes	7	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7 (100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	2	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2 (100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae
group	14	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14 (100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)
Proteus spp.	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6 (100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	43	0/0
(-)	42/43
(97.7%)	0/0
(-)	43/43
(100%)	0/0
(-)	43/43
(100%)	0/0
(-)	43/43 (100%)	0/0
(-)	43/43
(100%)	0/0
(-)	43/43
(100%)	0/0
(-)	42/43
(97.7%)
Serratia marcescens	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6 (100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Polymicrobial specimens	28	0/0
(-)	27/28b
(96.4%)	0/0
(-)	28/28
(100%)	1/1c
(100%)	25/27d
(92.6%)	0/0
(-)	28/28 (100%)	0/0
(-)	28/28
(100%)	0/0
(-)	28/28
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	24/27
(88.9%)

--- Page 78 ---
Table 55: CTX-M, IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM Performance Table (PCR/seq on cultured isolate(s)
from sputum specimens)
Sputum
Overall
Applicable OXA-48- (any
CTX-M IMP KPC NDM VIM
Bacteria like resistance
N
Result gene)
PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA
Overall 9/11b 214/219
(any applicable 3/4 221/226 0/0 230/230 6/7 222/223 0/0 230/230 0/0 230/230 1/1 229/229 (81.8%) (97.7%)
230
bacteria (75.0%) (97.8%) (-) (100%) (85.7%) (99.6%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%) [52.3- [94.8-
Detected)a 94.9%] 99.0%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus- 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5 0/0 5/5
5c
baumannii (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
complex
Enterobacter
cloacae 7d
0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
complex
Escherichia 1/1 9/9 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 1/1 9/9
10
coli (100%) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3
3
aerogenes (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4
4
oxytoca (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella
1/1 20/20 0/0 21/21 1/1 20/20 0/0 21/21 0/0 21/21 0/0 21/21 2/2 19/19
pneumoniae 21
(100%) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%)
group
0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
Proteus spp. 6
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Pseudomonas 0/1 65/67 0/0 68/68 0/1 67/67 0/0 68/68 0/0 68/68 0/0 68/68 0/2 64/66
68
aeruginosa (0%) (97.0%) (-) (100%) (0%) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (0%) (97.0%)
Serratia 14/14 1/1 13/13 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 1/1 13/13
14e 0/0 (-)
marcescens (100%) (100%) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%)
Polymicrobial 1/1f 88/91 0/0 92/92 4/4g 87/88 0/0 92/92 0/0 92/92 1/1h 91/91 5/5 84/87
specimens
92
(100%) (96.7%) (-) (100%) (100%) (98.9%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (96.6%)
a. An additional 19 specimens had no applicable bacteria detected by FilmArray, but had one or more applicable bacteria isolated by qRefCx; CTX-M was identified by
PCR/seq in one specimen (E. coli isolated by qRefCx), but no other resistance markers were identified in the cultured isolate(s) by PCR/seq from these specimens
b. One specimen had presence of dual AMR genes (KPC and VIM)
c. An A. calcoaceticus-baumannii isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
d. An E. cloacae isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
e. A S. marcescens isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
f. E. coli and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (CTX-M identified in the E. coli isolate by PCR/seq)
g. One specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K. pneumoniae group, Proteus spp., and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (K. pneumoniae group and P.
aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; CTX-M was not identified in either of these isolates by PCR/seq); one specimen E. coli, K. pneumoniae group, and P. aeruginosa
detected by FilmArray (E. coli and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; CTX-M was not identified in either of these isolated by PCR/seq); one specimen Proteus spp.
and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; CTX-M was not identified in this isolate by PCR/seq)
78

[Table 1 on page 78]
Sputum															
														Overall	
Applicable										OXA-48-				(any	
		CTX-M		IMP		KPC		NDM				VIM			
Bacteria										like				resistance	
	N														
Result														gene)	
															
		PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA
Overall
(any applicable
bacteria
Detected)a	230	3/4
(75.0%)	221/226
(97.8%)	0/0
(-)	230/230
(100%)	6/7
(85.7%)	222/223
(99.6%)	0/0
(-)	230/230
(100%)	0/0
(-)	230/230
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	229/229
(100%)	9/11b
(81.8%)
[52.3-
94.9%]	214/219
(97.7%)
[94.8-
99.0%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii
complex	5c	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/5
(100%)
Enterobacter
cloacae
complex	7d	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)
Escherichia
coli	10	1/1
(100%)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	9/9
(100%)
Klebsiella
aerogenes	3	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)
Klebsiella
oxytoca	4	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)
Klebsiella
pneumoniae
group	21	1/1
(100%)	20/20
(100%)	0/0
(-)	21/21
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	20/20
(100%)	0/0
(-)	21/21
(100%)	0/0
(-)	21/21
(100%)	0/0
(-)	21/21
(100%)	2/2
(100%)	19/19
(100%)
Proteus spp.	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Pseudomonas
aeruginosa	68	0/1
(0%)	65/67
(97.0%)	0/0
(-)	68/68
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	67/67
(100%)	0/0
(-)	68/68
(100%)	0/0
(-)	68/68
(100%)	0/0
(-)	68/68
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	64/66
(97.0%)
Serratia
marcescens	14e	0/0 (-)	14/14
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	13/13
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	13/13
(100%)
Polymicrobial
specimens	92	1/1f
(100%)	88/91
(96.7%)	0/0
(-)	92/92
(100%)	4/4g
(100%)	87/88
(98.9%)	0/0
(-)	92/92
(100%)	0/0
(-)	92/92
(100%)	1/1h
(100%)	91/91
(100%)	5/5
(100%)	84/87
(96.6%)

--- Page 79 ---
h. One specimen E. coli and e group detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (KPC identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen P.
aeruginosa and S. marcescens detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (KPC identified in the S. marcescens isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen A.
calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K. aerogenes, K. pneumoniae group, and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (A. calcoaceticus-baumannii, K. pneumoniae, and
P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; KPC identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K. pneumoniae
group, Proteus spp., and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (K. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; KPC identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate
by PCR/seq)
i. One specimen K. pneumoniae group and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; KPC was not identified in this isolate by
PCR/seq)
j. One specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K. aerogenes, K. pneumoniae group, and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (A. calcoaceticus-baumannii, K.
pneumoniae, and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; VIM identified in the P. aeruginosa isolate by PCR/seq)
qRefCx isolated one or more applicable gram-negative bacteria from 79 of the 94 BAL specimens and
131 of the 196 sputum specimens that received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Detected result for an
applicable gram-negative bacterium for OXA-48-like. The method used to assess correlation of the
OXA-48-like results (Table 56 and Table 57) reported in the specimen by the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel to identification of the gene in the cultured isolates from that particular specimen was one
conventional PCR assay followed by bidirectional sequencing, performed directly on the isolate.
Table 56: OXA-48-like Performance Table (PCR/seq on cultured isolate(s) from BAL specimens)
BAL
Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
Applicable Bacteria Result TP/ TN/
% 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
0/0 - - 79/79 100 95.4-100%
(any applicable bacteria Detected)
Enterobacter cloacae complex 0/0 - - 10/10 100 72.2-100%
Escherichia coli 0/0 - - 13/13 100 77.2-100%
Klebsiella aerogenes 0/0 - - 7/7 100 64.6-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca 0/0 - - 3/3 100 43.9-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 0/0 - - 15/15 100 79.6-100%
Proteus spp. 0/0 - - 6/6 100 61.0-100%
Serratia marcescens 0/0 - - 8/8 100 67.6-100%
Polymicrobial specimens 0/0 - - 17/17 100 81.6-100%
79

[Table 1 on page 79]
	BAL													
Applicable Bacteria Result				Positive Percent Agreement						Negative Percent Agreement				
				TP/		%	95%CI			TN/		%	95%CI	
				(TP + FN)						(TN + FP)				
	Overall		0/0			-	-		79/79			100	95.4-100%	
	(any applicable bacteria Detected)													
Enterobacter cloacae complex			0/0			-	-		10/10			100	72.2-100%	
Escherichia coli			0/0			-	-		13/13			100	77.2-100%	
Klebsiella aerogenes			0/0			-	-		7/7			100	64.6-100%	
Klebsiella oxytoca			0/0			-	-		3/3			100	43.9-100%	
Klebsiella pneumoniae group			0/0			-	-		15/15			100	79.6-100%	
Proteus spp.			0/0			-	-		6/6			100	61.0-100%	
Serratia marcescens			0/0			-	-		8/8			100	67.6-100%	
Polymicrobial specimens			0/0			-	-		17/17			100	81.6-100%	

--- Page 80 ---
Table 57: OXA-48-like Performance Table (PCR/seq on cultured isolate(s) from sputum specimens)
Sputum
Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
Applicable Bacteria Result TP/ TN/
% 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
0/0 - - 131/131 100 97.2-100%
(any applicable bacteria Detected)
Enterobacter cloacae complex 0/0 - - 9/9 100 70.1-100%
Escherichia coli 0/0 - - 17/17 100 81.6-100%
Klebsiella aerogenes 0/0 - - 4/4 100 51.0-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca 0/0 - - 5/5 100 56.6-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 0/0 - - 25/25 100 86.7-100%
Proteus spp. 0/0 - - 9/9 100 70.1-100%
Serratia marcescens 0/0 - - 25/25 100 86.7-100%
Polymicrobial specimens 0/0 - - 37/37 100 90.6-100%
qRefCx isolated S. aureus from 75 of 116 BAL specimens and 154 of 204 sputum specimens that
received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Staphylococcus aureus Detected result. The method used to
assess correlation of the mecA/C and MREJ results (Table 58 and Table 59) reported in the specimen by
the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel to identification of the gene in the cultured isolates from that particular
specimen was one conventional PCR assay followed by bidirectional sequencing, performed directly on
the isolate.
Table 58: mecA/C and MREJ 3x3 Performance Table (qRefCx & PCR/seq on cultured
isolate(s) from BAL specimens)
BAL
S. aureus qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C
mecA/C and MREJ Org+ / Res+ Org+ / Res- Org - Total
Org+ / Res+ 19 2 25 46
FilmArray Org+ / Res- 1 24 45 70
Result Org - 0 1 729 730
Total 20 27 799 846
Performance Agreement % 95%CI
Org+ / Res+ 19/20 95.0% 76.4-99.1%
Org+ / Res- 24/27 88.9% 71.9-96.1%
Org - 729/799 91.2% 89.1-93.0%
Interpretation PPA NPA Prevalence
19/20 799/826 46/846
MRSA
(95.0%) (96.7%) (5.4%)
MSSA 24/27 773/819 70/846
80

[Table 1 on page 80]
	Sputum													
Applicable Bacteria Result				Positive Percent Agreement						Negative Percent Agreement				
				TP/		%	95%CI			TN/		%	95%CI	
				(TP + FN)						(TN + FP)				
	Overall		0/0			-	-		131/131			100	97.2-100%	
	(any applicable bacteria Detected)													
Enterobacter cloacae complex			0/0			-	-		9/9			100	70.1-100%	
Escherichia coli			0/0			-	-		17/17			100	81.6-100%	
Klebsiella aerogenes			0/0			-	-		4/4			100	51.0-100%	
Klebsiella oxytoca			0/0			-	-		5/5			100	56.6-100%	
Klebsiella pneumoniae group			0/0			-	-		25/25			100	86.7-100%	
Proteus spp.			0/0			-	-		9/9			100	70.1-100%	
Serratia marcescens			0/0			-	-		25/25			100	86.7-100%	
Polymicrobial specimens			0/0			-	-		37/37			100	90.6-100%	

[Table 2 on page 80]
BAL					
S. aureus		qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C			
mecA/C and MREJ		Org+ / Res+	Org+ / Res-	Org -	Total
	Org+ / Res+	19	2	25	46
FilmArray	Org+ / Res-	1	24	45	70
Result	Org -	0	1	729	730
	Total	20	27	799	846
Performance			Agreement	%	95%CI
Org+ / Res+			19/20	95.0%	76.4-99.1%
Org+ / Res-			24/27	88.9%	71.9-96.1%
Org -			729/799	91.2%	89.1-93.0%
Interpretation			PPA	NPA	Prevalence
MRSA			19/20	799/826	46/846
			(95.0%)	(96.7%)	(5.4%)
MSSA			24/27	773/819	70/846

--- Page 81 ---
(88.9%) (94.4%) (8.3%)
46/47 729/799 116/846
S. aureus
(97.9%) (91.2%) (13.7%)
Table 59: mecA/C and MREJ 3x3 Performance Table (qRefCx & PCR/seq on cultured
isolate(s) from sputum specimens)
Sputum
S. aureus qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C
mecA/C and MREJ Org+ / Res+ Org+ / Res- Org - Total
Org+ / Res+ 58 4 45 107
FilmArray Org+ / Res- 0 49 48 97
Result Org - 0 1 631 632
Total 58 54 724 836
Performance Agreement % 95%CI
Org+ / Res+ 58/58 100% 93.8-100%
Org+ / Res- 49/54 90.7% 80.1-96.0%
Org - 631/724 87.2% 84.5-89.4%
Interpretation PPA NPA Prevalence
58/58 729/778 107/836
MRSA
(100%) (93.7%) (12.8%)
49/54 734/782 97/836
MSSA
(90.7%) (93.9%) (11.6%)
111/112 631/724 204/836
S. aureus
(99.1%) (87.2%) (24.4%)
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel CTX-M reporting was also compared to the standard phenotypic extended
spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL) activity testing methods performed in conjunction with qRefCx. Standard
phenotypic ESBL activity was only reported for E. coli and Klebsiella spp. by the central reference
laboratory.
Of the 156 BAL specimens that received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Detected result for at least one
applicable gram-negative bacterium on the panel, 53 specimens received a Detected result for E. coli, K.
oxytoca, and/or K. pneumoniae; qRefCx isolated E. coli, K. oxytoca, and/or K. pneumoniae from 43 of
these specimens. Of the 295 sputum specimens that received a FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Detected
result for at least one applicable gram-negative bacterium on the panel, 114 specimens received a
Detected result for E. coli, K. oxytoca, and/or K. pneumoniae; qRefCx isolated E. coli, K. oxytoca,
and/or K. pneumoniae from 71 of these specimens. The correlation between FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel reporting of CTX-M in a particular specimen as compared to the phenotypic AST results of
isolates recovered from the same specimen are stratified by each applicable associated organism in
Table 60 and Table 61.
81

[Table 1 on page 81]
	(88.9%)	(94.4%)	(8.3%)
S. aureus	46/47	729/799	116/846
	(97.9%)	(91.2%)	(13.7%)

[Table 2 on page 81]
Sputum					
S. aureus		qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C			
mecA/C and MREJ		Org+ / Res+	Org+ / Res-	Org -	Total
	Org+ / Res+	58	4	45	107
FilmArray	Org+ / Res-	0	49	48	97
Result	Org -	0	1	631	632
	Total	58	54	724	836
Performance			Agreement	%	95%CI
Org+ / Res+			58/58	100%	93.8-100%
Org+ / Res-			49/54	90.7%	80.1-96.0%
Org -			631/724	87.2%	84.5-89.4%
Interpretation			PPA	NPA	Prevalence
MRSA			58/58	729/778	107/836
			(100%)	(93.7%)	(12.8%)
MSSA			49/54	734/782	97/836
			(90.7%)	(93.9%)	(11.6%)
S. aureus			111/112	631/724	204/836
			(99.1%)	(87.2%)	(24.4%)

--- Page 82 ---
Table 60: CTX-M Performance Table (comparison to phenotypic AST methods for BAL specimens)
BAL
Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
TP/ TN/
Applicable Bacteria Result % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
4/5 80.0 37.6-96.4% 38/38 100 90.8-100%
(any applicable bacteria Detected)
Escherichia coli 4/4 100 51.0-100% 11/11 100 74.1-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca 0/0 - - 5/5 100 56.6-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 0/1 0 - 17/17 100 81.6-100%
Polymicrobial specimens 0/0 - - 5/5 100 56.6-100%
Table 61: CTX-M Performance Table (comparison to phenotypic AST methods for sputum specimens)
Sputum
Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
Applicable Bacteria Result TP/ TN/
% 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
4/7 57.1 25.1-84.2% 63/64 98.4 91.7-99.7%
(any applicable bacteria Detected)
Escherichia coli 2/3 66.7 20.8-93.9% 17/17 100 81.6-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca 0/0 - - 9/9 100 70.1-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 1/2 50.0 - 26/27 96.3 81.7-99.3%
Polymicrobial specimens 1/2a 50.0 - 11/11 100 74.1-100%
a. One specimen E. coli and K. oxytoca detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (ESBL activity identified in the E. coli isolate by qRefCx
AST); one specimen E. coli and K. pneumoniae group detected by FilmArray (E. coli isolated by qRefCx and ESBL activity identified by
qRefCx AST).
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel carbapenem resistance gene reporting was also compared to the
standard phenotypic carbapenem susceptibility testing methods performed in conjunction with qRefCx.
In accordance with current CLSI guidelines, standard phenotypic ertapenem susceptibility is not
reported for A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex; therefore, carbapenem susceptibility is only based on
meropenem susceptibility for this organism. Resistance or intermediate-resistance to either ertapenem or
meropenem constituted carbapenem resistance for this analysis. The correlation between FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel reporting of the carbapenem resistance genes in a particular specimen as compared to
the phenotypic AST results of isolates recovered from the same specimen are stratified by each
applicable associated organism in Table 62 through Table 65.
82

[Table 1 on page 82]
BAL						
	Positive Percent Agreement			Negative Percent Agreement		
						
	TP/			TN/		
Applicable Bacteria Result		%	95%CI		%	95%CI
	(TP + FN)			(TN + FP)		
						
Overall
(any applicable bacteria Detected)	4/5	80.0	37.6-96.4%	38/38	100	90.8-100%
Escherichia coli	4/4	100	51.0-100%	11/11	100	74.1-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca	0/0	-	-	5/5	100	56.6-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	0/1	0	-	17/17	100	81.6-100%
Polymicrobial specimens	0/0	-	-	5/5	100	56.6-100%

[Table 2 on page 82]
Sputum						
	Positive Percent Agreement			Negative Percent Agreement		
Applicable Bacteria Result	TP/			TN/		
		%	95%CI		%	95%CI
	(TP + FN)			(TN + FP)		
						
Overall
(any applicable bacteria Detected)	4/7	57.1	25.1-84.2%	63/64	98.4	91.7-99.7%
Escherichia coli	2/3	66.7	20.8-93.9%	17/17	100	81.6-100%
Klebsiella oxytoca	0/0	-	-	9/9	100	70.1-100%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	1/2	50.0	-	26/27	96.3	81.7-99.3%
Polymicrobial specimens	1/2a	50.0	-	11/11	100	74.1-100%

--- Page 83 ---
Table 62: IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM Performance Table
(comparison to phenotypic AST methods for BAL specimens)
BAL
Overall
(any
Applicable IMP KPC NDM OXA-48-like VIM carbapenem
N
Bacteria Result resistance
gene)
PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA
3/17 109/109
Overall
0/17 109/109 3/17 109/109 0/17 109/109 0/17 109/109 0/17 109/109 (17.6%) (100%)
(any applicable 126a
(0%) (100%) (17.6%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) [6.2- [96.6-
bacteria Detected)
41.0%] 100%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
0 - - - - - - - - - - - -
baumannii
complex
Enterobacter 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9 0/0 9/9
9
cloacae complex (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12 0/0 12/12
Escherichia coli 12
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Enterobacter 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7 0/0 7/7
7
aerogenes (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2 0/0 2/2
Klebsiella oxytoca 2
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14 0/0 14/14
14
pneumoniae group (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
Proteus spp. 6
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Pseudomonas 0/12 30/30 0/12 30/30 0/12 30/30 0/12 30/30 0/12 30/30 0/12 30/30
42
aeruginosa (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%)
0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
Serratia marcescens 6
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Polymicrobial 0/5 23/23 3/5 23/23 0/5 23/23 0/5 23/23 0/5 23/23 3/5b 23/23
28
specimens (0%) (100%) (60.0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (60.0%) (100%)
a. The isolate recovered from one specimen (P. aeruginosa) did not yield valid AST results on the VITEK instrument
b. Of the three specimens that were concordant: one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex and K. pneumoniae group
detected by FilmArray (A. calcoaceticus-baumannii isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST, and
KPC not identified in the isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen E. cloacae complex and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and
isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the E. cloacae isolate by qRefCx AST, and KPC identified in the E.
cloacae isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen Proteus spp. and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (P. aeruginosa isolated by
qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST, and KPC not identified in the isolate by PCR/seq). Of the two
specimens that were not concordant: one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray
(P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST, and KPC not identified in the isolate by
PCR/seq); one specimen E. cloacae complex and K. aerogenes detected by FilmArray (E. cloacae isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem
resistance identified by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in the isolate by PCR/seq).
83

[Table 1 on page 83]
BAL													
												Overall	
												(any	
Applicable		IMP		KPC		NDM		OXA-48-like		VIM		carbapenem	
	N												
Bacteria Result												resistance	
													
												gene)	
		PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA
Overall
(any applicable
bacteria Detected)	126a	0/17
(0%)	109/109
(100%)	3/17
(17.6%)	109/109
(100%)	0/17
(0%)	109/109
(100%)	0/17
(0%)	109/109
(100%)	0/17
(0%)	109/109
(100%)	3/17
(17.6%)
[6.2-
41.0%]	109/109
(100%)
[96.6-
100%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii
complex	0	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Enterobacter
cloacae complex	9	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)	0/0
(-)	9/9
(100%)
Escherichia coli	12	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)
Enterobacter
aerogenes	7	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)	0/0
(-)	7/7
(100%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	2	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)
Klebsiella
pneumoniae group	14	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)	0/0
(-)	14/14
(100%)
Proteus spp.	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Pseudomonas
aeruginosa	42	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)	0/12
(0%)	30/30
(100%)
Serratia marcescens	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Polymicrobial
specimens	28	0/5
(0%)	23/23
(100%)	3/5
(60.0%)	23/23
(100%)	0/5
(0%)	23/23
(100%)	0/5
(0%)	23/23
(100%)	0/5
(0%)	23/23
(100%)	3/5b
(60.0%)	23/23
(100%)

--- Page 84 ---
Table 63: IMP, KPC, NDM, and VIM Performance Table (comparison to phenotypic AST
methods for sputum specimens)
Sputum
Overall
(any
Applicable IMP KPC NDM OXA-48-like VIM carbapenem
N
Bacteria Result resistance
gene)
PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA PPA NPA
6/35b 193/194
Overall
0/35 194/194 6/35 193/194 0/35 194/194 0/35 194/194 1/35 194/194 (17.1%) (99.5%)
(any applicable 229a
(0%) (100%) (17.1%) (99.5%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (2.9%) (100%) [8.1- [97.1-
bacteria Detected)
32.7%] 99.9%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
5c
0/2 3/3 0/2 3/3 0/2 3/3 0/2 3/3 0/2 3/3 0/2 3/3
baumannii (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%)
complex
Enterobacter
7d
0/1 6/6 0/1 6/6 0/1 6/6 0/1 6/6 0/1 6/6 0/1 6/6
cloacae complex (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%)
Escherichia coli 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10 0/0 10/10
10
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3 0/0 3/3
3
aerogenes (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4 0/0 4/4
4
oxytoca (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Klebsiella 0/2 19/19 1/2 19/19 0/2 19/19 0/2 19/19 0/2 19/19 1/2 19/19
21
pneumoniae group (0%) (100%) (50.0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (50.0%) (100%)
Proteus spp. 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6 0/0 6/6
6
(-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%) (-) (100%)
Pseudomonas 0/16 51/51 0/16 51/51 0/16 51/51 0/16 51/51 0/16 51/51 0/16 51/51
67
aeruginosa (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%)
Serratia marcescens 0/1 13/13 1/1 13/13 0/1 13/13 0/1 13/13 0/1 13/13 1/1 13/13
14e
(0%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (100%)
Polymicrobial 0/13 79/79 4/13 78/79 0/13 79/79 0/13 79/79 1/13 79/79 4/13f 78/79
92
specimens (0%) (100%) (30.8%) (98.7%) (0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (7.7%) (100%) (30.8%) (98.7%)
a. The isolate recovered from one specimen (P. aeruginosa) did not yield valid AST results on the VITEK instrument
b. One specimen had presence of dual AMR genes (KPC and VIM)
c. An A. calcoaceticus-baumannii isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
d. An E. cloacae isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
e. A S. marcescens isolate was not recovered by qRefCx for one specimen
f. Of the four specimens that were concordant: one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K. aerogenes, K. pneumoniae
group, and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (A. calcoaceticus-baumannii, K. pneumoniae, and P. aeruginosa isolated by
qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified in all three isolates by qRefCx AST, KPC identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by
PCR/seq, and VIM identified in the P. aeruginosa isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, K.
pneumoniae group, Proteus spp., and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (K. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx,
carbapenem resistance identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by qRefCx AST, and KPC identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by
84

[Table 1 on page 84]
Sputum													
												Overall	
												(any	
Applicable		IMP		KPC		NDM		OXA-48-like		VIM		carbapenem	
	N												
Bacteria Result												resistance	
													
												gene)	
		PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA	PPA	NPA
Overall
(any applicable
bacteria Detected)	229a	0/35
(0%)	194/194
(100%)	6/35
(17.1%)	193/194
(99.5%)	0/35
(0%)	194/194
(100%)	0/35
(0%)	194/194
(100%)	1/35
(2.9%)	194/194
(100%)	6/35b
(17.1%)
[8.1-
32.7%]	193/194
(99.5%)
[97.1-
99.9%]
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii
complex	5c	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)
Enterobacter
cloacae complex	7d	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	6/6
(100%)
Escherichia coli	10	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)	0/0
(-)	10/10
(100%)
Klebsiella
aerogenes	3	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/3
(100%)
Klebsiella
oxytoca	4	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/4
(100%)
Klebsiella
pneumoniae group	21	0/2
(0%)	19/19
(100%)	1/2
(50.0%)	19/19
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	19/19
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	19/19
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	19/19
(100%)	1/2
(50.0%)	19/19
(100%)
Proteus spp.	6	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/6
(100%)
Pseudomonas
aeruginosa	67	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)	0/16
(0%)	51/51
(100%)
Serratia marcescens	14e	0/1
(0%)	13/13
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	13/13
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	13/13
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	13/13
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	13/13
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	13/13
(100%)
Polymicrobial
specimens	92	0/13
(0%)	79/79
(100%)	4/13
(30.8%)	78/79
(98.7%)	0/13
(0%)	79/79
(100%)	0/13
(0%)	79/79
(100%)	1/13
(7.7%)	79/79
(100%)	4/13f
(30.8%)	78/79
(98.7%)

--- Page 85 ---
PCR/seq); one specimen E. coli and K. pneumoniae group detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance
identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC identified in the isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen P. aeruginosa
and S. marcescens detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the S. marcescens isolate by
qRefCx AST and KPC identified in the isolate by PCR/seq). Of the nine specimens that were not concordant: one specimen A.
calcoaceticus-baumannii complex and Proteus spp. detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified
in the A. calcoaceticus-baumannii isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen E.
cloacae complex and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray (P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified by
qRefCx AST, and KPC not identified in the isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen E. coli and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and
isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the P. aeruginosa isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in either
isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen K. pneumoniae group and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx
(carbapenem resistance identified in the K. pneumoniae isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq);
one specimen Proteus spp. and P. aeruginosa detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the
P. aeruginosa isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen P. aeruginosa and S.
marcescens detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the S. marcescens isolate by qRefCx
AST and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen P. aeruginosa and S. marcescens detected by FilmArray (P.
aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST, and KPC not identified in the isolate by
PCR/seq); one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, E. coli, K. pneumoniae group, and P. aeruginosa detected by
FilmArray (E. coli and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx, carbapenem resistance identified in the P. aeruginosa isolate by qRefCx
AST, and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq); one specimen A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex, Proteus spp., P.
aeruginosa, and S. marcescens detected by FilmArray (Proteus spp. and P. aeruginosa isolated by qRefCx; carbapenem resistance
identified in the P. aeruginosa isolate by qRefCx AST and KPC not identified in either isolate by PCR/seq).
Table 64: OXA-48-like Performance Table (comparison to phenotypic AST methods for BAL specimens)
BAL
Applicable Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
Bacteria TP/ TN/
% 95%CI % 95%CI
Result (TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
(any applicable
0/2 0 - 77/77 100 95.2-100%
bacteria
Detected)
Enterobacter
cloacae 0/1 0 - 9/9 100 70.1-100%
complex
Escherichia
0/0 - - 13/13 100 77.2-100%
coli
Klebsiella
0/0 - - 7/7 100 64.6-100%
aerogenes
Klebsiella
0/0 - - 3/3 100 43.9-100%
oxytoca
Klebsiella
pneumoniae 0/0 - - 15/15 100 79.6-100%
group
Proteus spp. 0/0 - - 6/6 100 61.0-100%
85

[Table 1 on page 85]
	BAL													
	Applicable			Positive Percent Agreement						Negative Percent Agreement				
	Bacteria			TP/		%	95%CI			TN/		%	95%CI	
	Result			(TP + FN)						(TN + FP)				
	Overall		0/2			0	-		77/77			100	95.2-100%	
	(any applicable													
	bacteria													
	Detected)													
Enterobacter
cloacae
complex			0/1			0	-		9/9			100	70.1-100%	
Escherichia
coli			0/0			-	-		13/13			100	77.2-100%	
Klebsiella
aerogenes			0/0			-	-		7/7			100	64.6-100%	
Klebsiella
oxytoca			0/0			-	-		3/3			100	43.9-100%	
Klebsiella
pneumoniae
group			0/0			-	-		15/15			100	79.6-100%	
Proteus spp.			0/0			-	-		6/6			100	61.0-100%	

--- Page 86 ---
BAL
Serratia
0/0 - - 8/8 100 67.6-100%
marcescens
Polymicrobial
0/1a 0 - 16/16 100 80.6-100%
specimens
a. E. cloacae complex and K. aerogenes detected by FilmArray (E. cloacae complex isolated by qRefCx and carbapenem resistance identified by
qRefCx AST)
Table 65: OXA-48-like Performance Table (comparison to phenotypic AST methods for sputum specimens)
Sputum
Positive Percent Agreement Negative Percent Agreement
Applicable
TP/ TN/
Bacteria Result % 95%CI % 95%CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Overall
(any applicable
0/10 0 - 121/121 100 96.9-100%
bacteria
Detected)
Enterobacter
cloacae 0/1 0 - 8/8 100 67.6-100%
complex
Escherichia coli 0/0 - - 17/17 100 81.6-100%
Klebsiella
0/0 - - 4/4 100 51.0-100%
aerogenes
Klebsiella
0/0 - - 5/5 100 56.6-100%
oxytoca
Klebsiella
pneumoniae 0/3 0 - 22/22 100 85.1-100%
group
Proteus spp. 0/0 - - 9/9 100 70.1-100%
Serratia
0/3 0 - 22/22 100 85.1-100%
marcescens
Polymicrobial
0/3a 0 - 34/34 100 89.8-100%
specimens
a. One specimen E. coli and K. pneumoniae group detected by FilmArray and isolated by qRefCx (carbapenem resistance identified in the K.
pneumoniae group isolate by qRefCx AST); one specimen K. aerogenes and K. pneumoniae group detected by FilmArray (K. pneumoniae
group isolated by qRefCx and carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST); one specimen K. pneumoniae group and Proteus spp.
detected by FilmArray (K. pneumoniae group isolated by qRefCx and carbapenem resistance identified by qRefCx AST)
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel mecA/C and MREJ reporting was also compared to the standard
phenotypic cefoxitin susceptibility testing methods performed in conjunction with qRefCx. The
correlation between FilmArray Pneumonia Panel reporting of mecA/C and MREJ in a particular
specimen as compared to the phenotypic AST results of isolates recovered from the same specimen is
86

[Table 1 on page 86]
	BAL							
Serratia
marcescens		0/0	-	-	8/8	100	67.6-100%	
Polymicrobial
specimens		0/1a	0	-	16/16	100	80.6-100%	

[Table 2 on page 86]
	Sputum									
Applicable
Bacteria Result			Positive Percent Agreement				Negative Percent Agreement			
			TP/
(TP + FN)	%	95%CI		TN/
(TN + FP)	%	95%CI	
	Overall
(any applicable
bacteria
Detected)	0/10		0	-	121/121		100	96.9-100%	
Enterobacter
cloacae
complex		0/1		0	-	8/8		100	67.6-100%	
Escherichia coli		0/0		-	-	17/17		100	81.6-100%	
Klebsiella
aerogenes		0/0		-	-	4/4		100	51.0-100%	
Klebsiella
oxytoca		0/0		-	-	5/5		100	56.6-100%	
Klebsiella
pneumoniae
group		0/3		0	-	22/22		100	85.1-100%	
Proteus spp.		0/0		-	-	9/9		100	70.1-100%	
Serratia
marcescens		0/3		0	-	22/22		100	85.1-100%	
Polymicrobial
specimens		0/3a		0	-	34/34		100	89.8-100%	

--- Page 87 ---
shown in Table 66 and Table 67.
Table 66: mecA/C and MREJ 3x3 Performance Table (qRefCx & phenotypic AST on
cultured isolate(s) from BAL specimens)
BAL
S. aureus qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C
mecA/C and MREJ Org+ / Res+ Org+ / Res- Org - Total
Org+ / Res+ 18 3 25 46
FilmArray Org+ / Res- 1 24 45 70
Result Org - 0 1 729 730
Total 19 28 799 846
Performance Agreement % 95%CI
Org+ / Res+ 18/19 94.7% 75.4-99.1%
Org+ / Res- 24/28 85.7% 68.5-94.3%
Org - 729/799 91.2% 89.1-93.0%
Interpretation PPA NPA Prevalence
18/19 799/827 46/846
MRSA
(94.7%) (96.6%) (5.4%)
24/28 772/818 70/846
MSSA
(85.7%) (94.4%) (8.3%)
46/47 729/799 116/846
S. aureus
(97.9%) (91.2%) (13.7%)
Table 67: mecA/C and MREJ 3x3 Performance Table (qRefCx & phenotypic AST on
cultured isolate(s) from sputum specimens)
Sputum
S. aureus qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C
mecA/C and MREJ Org+ / Res+ Org+ / Res- Org - Total
Org+ / Res+ 59 3 45 107
FilmArray Org+ / Res- 1 48 48 97
Result Org - 0 1 631 632
Total 60 52 724 836
Performance Agreement % 95%CI
Org+ / Res+ 59/60 98.3% 91.1-99.7%
Org+ / Res- 48/52 92.3% 81.8-97.0%
Org - 631/724 87.2% 84.5-89.4%
Interpretation PPA NPA Prevalence
59/60 728/776 107/836
MRSA
(98.3%) (93.8%) (12.8%)
48/52 735/784 97/836
MSSA
(92.3%) (93.8%) (11.6%)
87

[Table 1 on page 87]
BAL					
S. aureus		qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C			
mecA/C and MREJ		Org+ / Res+	Org+ / Res-	Org -	Total
	Org+ / Res+	18	3	25	46
FilmArray	Org+ / Res-	1	24	45	70
Result	Org -	0	1	729	730
	Total	19	28	799	846
Performance			Agreement	%	95%CI
Org+ / Res+			18/19	94.7%	75.4-99.1%
Org+ / Res-			24/28	85.7%	68.5-94.3%
Org -			729/799	91.2%	89.1-93.0%
Interpretation			PPA	NPA	Prevalence
MRSA			18/19	799/827	46/846
			(94.7%)	(96.6%)	(5.4%)
MSSA			24/28	772/818	70/846
			(85.7%)	(94.4%)	(8.3%)
S. aureus			46/47	729/799	116/846
			(97.9%)	(91.2%)	(13.7%)

[Table 2 on page 87]
Sputum					
S. aureus		qRefCx: S. aureus PCR/seq: mecA/C			
mecA/C and MREJ		Org+ / Res+	Org+ / Res-	Org -	Total
	Org+ / Res+	59	3	45	107
FilmArray	Org+ / Res-	1	48	48	97
Result	Org -	0	1	631	632
	Total	60	52	724	836
Performance			Agreement	%	95%CI
Org+ / Res+			59/60	98.3%	91.1-99.7%
Org+ / Res-			48/52	92.3%	81.8-97.0%
Org -			631/724	87.2%	84.5-89.4%
Interpretation			PPA	NPA	Prevalence
MRSA			59/60	728/776	107/836
			(98.3%)	(93.8%)	(12.8%)
MSSA			48/52	735/784	97/836
			(92.3%)	(93.8%)	(11.6%)

--- Page 88 ---
Sputum
111/112 631/724 204/836
S. aureus
(99.1%) (87.2%) (24.4%)
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin performance compared to the quantitative molecular assay (qMol)
comparator is shown for BAL (Table 68) and sputum (Table 69). The qMol values are broken into one-
log ranges correlating to the reported semi-quantitative FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bins. The
relationship between qMol quantitative bins in copies/mL and traditional culture quantification in
CFU/mL was not established.
Table 68: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Overall bin performance for BAL Specimens (qMol)
BAL
qMol Range of Not Detected
Values a (ND) to 104.0 105.0 106.0 >107.0 Total
(copies/mL) <103.5
88
niB
yarrAmliF
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 12025 35 5 0 2 12067
104 47 48 21 0 1 117
105 5 23 57 22 2 109
106 3 3 29 40 13 88
≥107 2 0 4 41 112 159
48/109 57/116 40/103 112/130
12025/12082 12540
% concordant (44.0%) (49.1%) (38.8%) (86.2%)
(99.5%)
257/458 (56.1%)
a. Shaded cells indicate results considered concordant between the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and qMol.
Table 69: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Overall bin performance for Sputum Specimens (qMol)
Sputum
qMol Range of
ND to
Values a 104.0 105.0 106.0 >107.0 Total
<103.5
(copies/mL)
niB
yarrAmliF
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 11392 85 17 2 2 11498
104 79 87 41 7 0 214
105 12 33 104 43 5 197
106 2 4 39 88 41 174
≥107 4 0 1 44 288 337
87/209 104/202 88/184 288/336
11392/11489
% concordant (41.6%) (51.5%) (47.8%) (67.9%) 12420
(99.2%)
567/931 (60.9%)
a Shaded cells indicate results considered concordant between the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and qMol.

[Table 1 on page 88]
Sputum			
S. aureus	111/112	631/724	204/836
	(99.1%)	(87.2%)	(24.4%)

[Table 2 on page 88]
BAL																							
	qMol Range of								Not Detected		104.0			105.0			106.0			>107.0			Total
	Values a								(ND) to														
	(copies/mL)								<103.5														
		niB
yarrAmliF	)Lm/seipoc(			ND			12025		35			5			0			2			12067
						104		47				48		21			0			1			117
						105		5			23				57		22			2			109
						106		3			3			29				40		13			88
						≥107		2			0			4			41				112		159
% concordant								12025/12082
(99.5%)			48/109
(44.0%)			57/116
(49.1%)			40/103
(38.8%)			112/130
(86.2%)			12540
											257/458 (56.1%)												

[Table 3 on page 88]
	Sputum																							
	qMol Range of							ND to
<103.5			104.0			105.0			106.0			>107.0			Total	
	Values a																							
	(copies/mL)																							
		niB
yarrAmliF	)Lm/seipoc(			ND			11392		85			17			2			2			11498	
						104		79				87		41			7			0			214	
						105		12			33				104		43			5			197	
						106		2			4			39				88		41			174	
						≥107		4			0			1			44				288		337	
% concordant								11392/11489
(99.2%)			87/209
(41.6%)			104/202
(51.5%)			88/184
(47.8%)			288/336
(67.9%)			12420	
											567/931 (60.9%)													

[Table 4 on page 88]
ND to
<103.5

--- Page 89 ---
Table 70: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for BAL Specimens Compared to qMol
BAL
103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
qMol Range of Values
<104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0 ≥107.0 (≥107) Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)
(ND or 104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
Acinetobacter
2/2 1/2 2/3 2/3 0/0 7/10
calcoaceticus-
(100%) (50.0%) (66.7%) (66.7%) (-) (70.0%)
baumannii complex
Enterobacter aerogenes 1/1 2/3 4/4 2/3 3/4 12/15
(100%) (66.7%) (100%) (66.7%) (75.0%) (80.0%)
Enterobacter cloacae 0/0 3/7 2/3 5/7 3/4 13/21
complex (-) (42.9%) (66.7%) (71.4%) (75.0%) (61.9%)
Escherichia coli 1/2 3/3 4/5 4/4 5/5 17/19
(50.0%) (100%) (80.0%) (100%) (100%) (89.5%)
Haemophilus influenzae 11/11 8/13 14/15 23/23 16/16 72/78
(100%) (61.5%) (93.3%) (100%) (100%) (92.3%)
Klebsiella oxytoca 1/1 4/5 1/1 1/1 1/1 8/9
(100%) (80.0%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (88.9%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae 3/5 5/6 7/8 4/4 5/5 24/28
group (60.0%) (83.3%) (87.5%) (100%) (100%) (85.7%)
Moraxella catarrhalis 4/4 4/5 9/10 4/4 4/4 25/27
(100%) (80.0%) (90.0%) (100%) (100%) (92.6%)
Proteus spp. 1/1 3/4 3/3 1/1 2/2 10/11
(100%) (75.0%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (90.9%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 9/11 11/13 10/14 22/22 10/10 62/70
(81.8%) (84.6%) (71.4%) (100%) (100%) (88.6%)
Serratia marcescens 1/1 4/4 4/4 3/3 0/0 12/12
(100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (-) (100%)
Staphylococcus aureus 12/13 20/24 22/31 20/22 10/11 84/101
(92.3%) (83.3%) (71.0%) (90.9%) (90.9%) (83.2%)
Streptococcus agalactiae 1/1 7/7 3/4 5/6 2/2 18/20
(100%) (100%) (75.0%) (83.3%) (100%) (90.0%)
Streptococcus pneumoniae 4/4 7/8 6/8 4/4 5/6 26/30
(100%) (87.5%) (75.0%) (100%) (83.3%) (86.7%)
Streptococcus pyogenes 2/3 1/1 2/2 1/1 0/0 6/7
(66.7%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (-) (85.7%)
Table 71: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for Sputum Specimens Compared
to qMol
Sputum
103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
qMol Range of Values
<104.0 (ND or <105.0 <106.0 <107.0 ≥107.0 (≥107) Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)
104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
Acinetobacter
10/10 2/8 9/12 2/3 5/7 28/40
calcoaceticus-
(100%) (25.0%) (75.0%) (66.7%) (71.4%) (70.0%)
baumannii complex
89

[Table 1 on page 89]
BAL						
	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to		
qMol Range of Values						
	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	≥107.0 (≥107)	Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)						
	(ND or 104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)		
						
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex	2/2
(100%)	1/2
(50.0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	2/3
(66.7%)	0/0
(-)	7/10
(70.0%)
Enterobacter aerogenes	1/1
(100%)	2/3
(66.7%)	4/4
(100%)	2/3
(66.7%)	3/4
(75.0%)	12/15
(80.0%)
Enterobacter cloacae
complex	0/0
(-)	3/7
(42.9%)	2/3
(66.7%)	5/7
(71.4%)	3/4
(75.0%)	13/21
(61.9%)
Escherichia coli	1/2
(50.0%)	3/3
(100%)	4/5
(80.0%)	4/4
(100%)	5/5
(100%)	17/19
(89.5%)
Haemophilus influenzae	11/11
(100%)	8/13
(61.5%)	14/15
(93.3%)	23/23
(100%)	16/16
(100%)	72/78
(92.3%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	1/1
(100%)	4/5
(80.0%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	8/9
(88.9%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae
group	3/5
(60.0%)	5/6
(83.3%)	7/8
(87.5%)	4/4
(100%)	5/5
(100%)	24/28
(85.7%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	4/4
(100%)	4/5
(80.0%)	9/10
(90.0%)	4/4
(100%)	4/4
(100%)	25/27
(92.6%)
Proteus spp.	1/1
(100%)	3/4
(75.0%)	3/3
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	2/2
(100%)	10/11
(90.9%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	9/11
(81.8%)	11/13
(84.6%)	10/14
(71.4%)	22/22
(100%)	10/10
(100%)	62/70
(88.6%)
Serratia marcescens	1/1
(100%)	4/4
(100%)	4/4
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	12/12
(100%)
Staphylococcus aureus	12/13
(92.3%)	20/24
(83.3%)	22/31
(71.0%)	20/22
(90.9%)	10/11
(90.9%)	84/101
(83.2%)
Streptococcus agalactiae	1/1
(100%)	7/7
(100%)	3/4
(75.0%)	5/6
(83.3%)	2/2
(100%)	18/20
(90.0%)
Streptococcus pneumoniae	4/4
(100%)	7/8
(87.5%)	6/8
(75.0%)	4/4
(100%)	5/6
(83.3%)	26/30
(86.7%)
Streptococcus pyogenes	2/3
(66.7%)	1/1
(100%)	2/2
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	0/0
(-)	6/7
(85.7%)

[Table 2 on page 89]
Sputum						
	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to		
qMol Range of Values						
	<104.0 (ND or	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	≥107.0 (≥107)	Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)						
	104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)		
						
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex	10/10
(100%)	2/8
(25.0%)	9/12
(75.0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	5/7
(71.4%)	28/40
(70.0%)

--- Page 90 ---
3/3 5/6 0/2 3/3 1/1 12/15
Enterobacter aerogenes
(100%) (83.3%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (80.0%)
Enterobacter cloacae 7/7 10/17 6/7 4/4 3/3 30/38
complex (100%) (58.8%) (85.7%) (100%) (100%) (78.9%)
7/7 14/19 6/7 7/7 11/11 45/51
Escherichia coli
(100%) (73.7%) (85.7%) (100%) (100%) (88.2%)
11/11 11/15 15/21 23/25 34/38 94/110
Haemophilus influenzae
(100%) (73.3%) (71.4%) (92.0%) (89.5%) (85.5%)
3/3 2/4 7/7 2/3 1/1 15/18
Klebsiella oxytoca
(100%) (50.0%) (100%) (66.7%) (100%) (83.3%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae 6/6 14/20 12/16 9/13 8/9 49/64
group (100%) (70.0%) (75.0%) (69.2%) (88.9%) (76.6%)
2/2 6/7 11/13 18/19 28/29 65/70
Moraxella catarrhalis
(100%) (85.7%) (84.6%) (94.7%) (96.6%) (92.9%)
2/2 6/8 3/4 6/7 3/3 20/24
Proteus spp.
(100%) (75.0%) (75.0%) (85.7%) (100%) (83.3%)
5/8 17/23 26/34 36/39 45/48 129/152
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(62.5%) (73.9%) (76.5%) (92.3%) (93.8%) (84.9%)
4/5 15/16 12/13 11/11 1/1 43/46
Serratia marcescens
(80.0%) (93.8%) (92.3%) (100%) (100%) (93.5%)
15/21 43/53 33/36 38/45 37/40 166/195
Staphylococcus aureus
(71.4%) (81.1%) (91.7%) (84.4%) (92.5%) (85.1%)
2/2 3/6 12/14 9/9 9/9 35/40
Streptococcus agalactiae
(100%) (50.0%) (85.7%) (100%) (100%) (87.5%)
5/5 9/13 6/9 7/10 18/21 45/58
Streptococcus pneumoniae
(100%) (69.2%) (66.7%) (70.0%) (85.7%) (77.6%)
0/0 2/2 2/2 3/3 3/3 10/10
Streptococcus pyogenes
(-) (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%)
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin performance compared to the quantitative reference culture
(qRefCx) comparator is shown for BAL and sputum in the Tables 72 through 83. Data is shown for
overall performance, as well as for some individual organisms. In these tables, the values reported by
culture are broken into ranges. A FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin result is considered concordant if the
culture value is within 0.5 log of the bin boundary. For example, the 105 FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
bin (104.5-105.5) is concordant with the culture range of 104-105 CFU/mL.
Table 72: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Overall Bin Performance for BAL Specimens (qRefCx)
BAL
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (ND or 104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
90
rAmliF
yar niB
m/seipoc( ND 12202 1 2 0 0 0
104 116 1 3 0 0 0
105 90 10 11 0 1 0

[Table 1 on page 90]
Enterobacter aerogenes	3/3
(100%)	5/6
(83.3%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	12/15
(80.0%)
Enterobacter cloacae
complex	7/7
(100%)	10/17
(58.8%)	6/7
(85.7%)	4/4
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	30/38
(78.9%)
Escherichia coli	7/7
(100%)	14/19
(73.7%)	6/7
(85.7%)	7/7
(100%)	11/11
(100%)	45/51
(88.2%)
Haemophilus influenzae	11/11
(100%)	11/15
(73.3%)	15/21
(71.4%)	23/25
(92.0%)	34/38
(89.5%)	94/110
(85.5%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	3/3
(100%)	2/4
(50.0%)	7/7
(100%)	2/3
(66.7%)	1/1
(100%)	15/18
(83.3%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae
group	6/6
(100%)	14/20
(70.0%)	12/16
(75.0%)	9/13
(69.2%)	8/9
(88.9%)	49/64
(76.6%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	2/2
(100%)	6/7
(85.7%)	11/13
(84.6%)	18/19
(94.7%)	28/29
(96.6%)	65/70
(92.9%)
Proteus spp.	2/2
(100%)	6/8
(75.0%)	3/4
(75.0%)	6/7
(85.7%)	3/3
(100%)	20/24
(83.3%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	5/8
(62.5%)	17/23
(73.9%)	26/34
(76.5%)	36/39
(92.3%)	45/48
(93.8%)	129/152
(84.9%)
Serratia marcescens	4/5
(80.0%)	15/16
(93.8%)	12/13
(92.3%)	11/11
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	43/46
(93.5%)
Staphylococcus aureus	15/21
(71.4%)	43/53
(81.1%)	33/36
(91.7%)	38/45
(84.4%)	37/40
(92.5%)	166/195
(85.1%)
Streptococcus agalactiae	2/2
(100%)	3/6
(50.0%)	12/14
(85.7%)	9/9
(100%)	9/9
(100%)	35/40
(87.5%)
Streptococcus pneumoniae	5/5
(100%)	9/13
(69.2%)	6/9
(66.7%)	7/10
(70.0%)	18/21
(85.7%)	45/58
(77.6%)
Streptococcus pyogenes	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	2/2
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	10/10
(100%)

[Table 2 on page 90]
BAL										
qRefCx Range of										
					ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values										≥107.0
					<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)										(≥107)
					(ND)	(ND or 104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)										
										
rAmliF	yar	niB	m/seipoc(	ND	12202	1	2	0	0	0
				104	116	1	3	0	0	0
				105	90	10	11	0	1	0

--- Page 91 ---
106 61 10 17 2 1 0
≥107 61 10 36 32 11 12
12202/12530 1/32 (3.1%) 14/69 (20.3%) 2/34 (5.9%) 12/13 (92.3%) 12/12 (100%)
% concordant
(97.4%) 42/160 (26.3%)
Table 73:FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Overall Bin Performance for Sputum Specimens (qRefCx)
Sputum
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
91
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 11596 4 6 2 0 1
104 193 14 9 0 0 0
105 139 19 28 14 1 0
106 94 19 36 21 4 1
≥107 121 8 88 53 49 20
37/167
14/64 (21.9%) 35/90 (38.9%) 53/54 (98.1%) 20/22 (90.9%)
% concordant 11596/12143 (22.2%)
159/397 (40.1%)
Table 74: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel H. influenzae Bin Performance for BAL Specimens (qRefCx)
BAL
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 764 0 0 0 0 0
104 17 0 0 0 0 0
105 12 0 0 0 0 0
106 13 2 0 0 0 0
≥107 30 0 2 5 0 1
764/836 0/2 (0%) 0/2 (0%) 0/5 (0%) 0/0 (-) 1/1 (100%)
% concordant
(91.4%) 1/10 (10.0%)

[Table 1 on page 91]
	106	61	10	17	2	1	0
	≥107	61	10	36	32	11	12
		12202/12530
(97.4%)	1/32 (3.1%)	14/69 (20.3%)	2/34 (5.9%)	12/13 (92.3%)	12/12 (100%)
% concordant							
			42/160 (26.3%)				
							

[Table 2 on page 91]
Sputum											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	11596	4	6	2	0	1
					104	193	14	9	0	0	0
					105	139	19	28	14	1	0
					106	94	19	36	21	4	1
					≥107	121	8	88	53	49	20
						11596/12143	14/64 (21.9%)	37/167
(22.2%)	35/90 (38.9%)	53/54 (98.1%)	20/22 (90.9%)
% concordant											
							159/397 (40.1%)				

[Table 3 on page 91]
BAL											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	764	0	0	0	0	0
					104	17	0	0	0	0	0
					105	12	0	0	0	0	0
					106	13	2	0	0	0	0
					≥107	30	0	2	5	0	1
						764/836
(91.4%)	0/2 (0%)	0/2 (0%)	0/5 (0%)	0/0 (-)	1/1 (100%)
% concordant											
							1/10 (10.0%)				
											

--- Page 92 ---
Table 75: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel H. influenzae Bin Performance for Sputum Specimens (qRefCx)
Sputum
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
92
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 727 0 1 1 0 0
104 21 0 0 0 0 0
105 19 0 0 1 0 0
106 13 0 1 0 0 0
≥107 38 0 10 2 2 0
727/818 0/0 (-) 0/12 (0%) 1/4 (25.0%) 2/2 (100%) 0/0 (-)
% concordant
(88.9%) 3/18 (16.7%)
Table 76: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel P. aeruginosa Bin Performance for BAL Specimens (qRefCx)
BAL
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 772 0 0 0 0 0
104 12 0 1 0 0 0
105 14 2 1 0 0 0
106 5 1 2 1 1 0
≥107 7 1 11 12 1 2
772/810 0/4 (0.0%) 2/15 (13.3%) 1/13 (7.7%) 2/2 (100%) 2/2 (100%)
% concordant
(95.3%) 7/36 (19.4%)
Table 77: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel P. aeruginosa Bin Performance for Sputum Specimens (qRefCx)
Sputum
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 673 2 1 0 0 0
104 16 3 1 0 0 0
105 17 3 6 2 0 0
106 12 4 8 3 1 0
≥107 12 3 26 19 18 6
673/730 3/15 (20.0%) 7/42 (16.7%) 5/24 (20.8%) 19/19 (100%) 6/6 (100%)
% concordant
(92.2%) 40/106 (37.7%)

[Table 1 on page 92]
Sputum											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	727	0	1	1	0	0
					104	21	0	0	0	0	0
					105	19	0	0	1	0	0
					106	13	0	1	0	0	0
					≥107	38	0	10	2	2	0
						727/818
(88.9%)	0/0 (-)	0/12 (0%)	1/4 (25.0%)	2/2 (100%)	0/0 (-)
% concordant											
							3/18 (16.7%)				
											

[Table 2 on page 92]
BAL											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	772	0	0	0	0	0
					104	12	0	1	0	0	0
					105	14	2	1	0	0	0
					106	5	1	2	1	1	0
					≥107	7	1	11	12	1	2
						772/810
(95.3%)	0/4 (0.0%)	2/15 (13.3%)	1/13 (7.7%)	2/2 (100%)	2/2 (100%)
% concordant											
							7/36 (19.4%)				
											

[Table 3 on page 92]
Sputum											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	673	2	1	0	0	0
					104	16	3	1	0	0	0
					105	17	3	6	2	0	0
					106	12	4	8	3	1	0
					≥107	12	3	26	19	18	6
						673/730
(92.2%)	3/15 (20.0%)	7/42 (16.7%)	5/24 (20.8%)	19/19 (100%)	6/6 (100%)
% concordant											
							40/106 (37.7%)				
											

--- Page 93 ---
Table 78: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel S. aureus Bin Performance for BAL Specimens (qRefCx)
BAL
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
93
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 729 1 0 0 0 0
104 33 0 0 0 0 0
105 23 3 0 0 0 0
106 13 2 7 1 0 0
≥107 1 5 12 8 5 3
729/799 0/11 (0.0%) 0/19 (0.0%) 1/9 (11.1%) 5/5 (100%) 3/3 (100%)
% concordant
(91.2%) 9/47 (19.1%)
Table 79: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel S. aureus Bin Performance for Sputum Specimens (qRefCx)
Sputum
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 631 1 0 0 0 0
104 39 1 3 0 0 0
105 33 7 8 4 1 0
106 12 7 13 9 1 1
≥107 9 2 21 15 11 7
631/724 1/18 (5.6%) 11/45 (24.4%) 13/28 (46.4%) 12/13 (92.3%) 7/8 (87.5%)
% concordant
(87.2%) 44/112 (39.3%)
Table 80: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel S. pneumoniae Bin Performance for BAL Specimens (qRefCx)
BAL
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 817 0 0 0 0 0
104 8 1 0 0 0 0
105 7 0 1 0 0 0
106 5 0 1 0 0 0
≥107 4 1 0 1 0 0
817/841 1/2 (50.0%) 1/2 (50.0%) 0/1 (0.0%) 0/0 (-%) 0/0 (-%)
% concordant
(97.1%) 2/5 (40%)

[Table 1 on page 93]
BAL											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	729	1	0	0	0	0
					104	33	0	0	0	0	0
					105	23	3	0	0	0	0
					106	13	2	7	1	0	0
					≥107	1	5	12	8	5	3
						729/799
(91.2%)	0/11 (0.0%)	0/19 (0.0%)	1/9 (11.1%)	5/5 (100%)	3/3 (100%)
% concordant											
							9/47 (19.1%)				
											

[Table 2 on page 93]
Sputum											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	631	1	0	0	0	0
					104	39	1	3	0	0	0
					105	33	7	8	4	1	0
					106	12	7	13	9	1	1
					≥107	9	2	21	15	11	7
						631/724
(87.2%)	1/18 (5.6%)	11/45 (24.4%)	13/28 (46.4%)	12/13 (92.3%)	7/8 (87.5%)
% concordant											
							44/112 (39.3%)				
											

[Table 3 on page 93]
BAL											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	817	0	0	0	0	0
					104	8	1	0	0	0	0
					105	7	0	1	0	0	0
					106	5	0	1	0	0	0
					≥107	4	1	0	1	0	0
						817/841
(97.1%)	1/2 (50.0%)	1/2 (50.0%)	0/1 (0.0%)	0/0 (-%)	0/0 (-%)
% concordant											
							2/5 (40%)				
											

--- Page 94 ---
Table 81: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel S. pneumoniae Bin Performance for Sputum Specimens
(qRefCx)
Sputum
qRefCx Range of ND to 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
Values <103.5 <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0
≥107.0
(CFU/mL)
(≥107)
(ND) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)
94
yarrAmliF
niB
)Lm/seipoc(
ND 785 0 0 0 0 0
104 10 2 0 0 0 0
105 8 0 2 0 0 0
106 9 1 0 0 0 0
≥107 8 0 4 2 4 1
785/820 2/3 (66.7%) 2/6 (33.3%) 0/2 (0.0%) 4/4 (100%) 1/1 (100%)
% concordant
(95.7%) 9/16 (56.3%)
Table 82: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for BAL Specimens compared to
qRefCx
BAL
qRefCx Range of Values 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
(Concordant FilmArray <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0 ≥107.0 (≥107) Overall
Bin) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
Acinetobacter
0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
calcoaceticus-
(-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-)
baumannii complex
Enterobacter cloacae 0/1 1/7 0/3 0/0 1/1 2/12
complex (0%) (14.3%) (0%) (-) (100%) (16.7%)
0/4 1/7 0/0 0/0 1/1 2/12
Escherichia coli
(0%) (14.3%) (-) (-) (100%) (16.7%)
Haemophilus 0/2 0/2 0/5 0/0 1/1 1/10
influenzae (0%) (0%) (0%) (-) (100%) (10.0%)
0/1 ½ 0/1 2/3 0/0 3/7
Klebsiella aerogenes
(0%) (50.0%) (0%) (66.7%) (-) (42.9%)
0/0 1/2 0/0 0/0 0/0 1/2
Klebsiella oxytoca
(-) (50.0%) (-) (-) (-) (50.0%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae 0/5 3/5 0/0 2/2 3/3 8/15
group (0%) (60.0%) (-) (100%) (100%) (53.3%)
0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0
Moraxella catarrhalis
(-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-)
0/1 1/1 0/1 1/1 1/1 3/5
Proteus spp.
(0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (60.0%)
Pseudomonas 0/4 2/15 1/13 2/2 7/36
2/2 (100%)
aeruginosa (0%) (13.3%) (7.7%) (100%) (19.4%)
Serratia marcescens 0/1 1/4 0/1 ( 0/0 0/0 1/6

[Table 1 on page 94]
Sputum											
qRefCx Range of											
						ND to	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to	
Values											≥107.0
						<103.5	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	
(CFU/mL)											(≥107)
						(ND)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)	
(Predicted FilmArray Bin)											
											
	yarrAmliF	niB	)Lm/seipoc(		ND	785	0	0	0	0	0
					104	10	2	0	0	0	0
					105	8	0	2	0	0	0
					106	9	1	0	0	0	0
					≥107	8	0	4	2	4	1
						785/820
(95.7%)	2/3 (66.7%)	2/6 (33.3%)	0/2 (0.0%)	4/4 (100%)	1/1 (100%)
% concordant											
							9/16 (56.3%)				
											

[Table 2 on page 94]
BAL						
qRefCx Range of Values	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to		
(Concordant FilmArray	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	≥107.0 (≥107)	Overall
Bin)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)		
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)
Enterobacter cloacae
complex	0/1
(0%)	1/7
(14.3%)	0/3
(0%)	0/0
(-)	1/1
(100%)	2/12
(16.7%)
Escherichia coli	0/4
(0%)	1/7
(14.3%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	1/1
(100%)	2/12
(16.7%)
Haemophilus
influenzae	0/2
(0%)	0/2
(0%)	0/5
(0%)	0/0
(-)	1/1
(100%)	1/10
(10.0%)
Klebsiella aerogenes	0/1
(0%)	½
(50.0%)	0/1
(0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	0/0
(-)	3/7
(42.9%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	0/0
(-)	1/2
(50.0%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	1/2
(50.0%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae
group	0/5
(0%)	3/5
(60.0%)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	8/15
(53.3%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)
Proteus spp.	0/1
(0%)	1/1
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	3/5
(60.0%)
Pseudomonas
aeruginosa	0/4
(0%)	2/15
(13.3%)	1/13
(7.7%)	2/2 (100%)	2/2
(100%)	7/36
(19.4%)
Serratia marcescens	0/1	1/4	0/1 (	0/0	0/0	1/6

--- Page 95 ---
BAL
(0%) (25.0%) 0%) (-) (-) (16.7%)
0/11 0/19 1/9 5/5 3/3 9/47
Staphylococcus aureus
(0.0%) (0%) (11.1%) (100%) (100%) (19.1%)
Streptococcus 0/0 0/1 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/1
agalactiae (-) (0%) (-) (-) (-) (0%)
Streptococcus 1/2 1/2 0/1 0/0 0/0 2/5
pneumoniae (50.0%) (50.0%) (0%) (-) (-) (40.0%)
Streptococcus 0/0 2/2 0/0 0/0 0/0 2/2
pyogenes (-) (100%) (-) (-) (-) (100%)
Table 83: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for Sputum Specimens compared to
qRefCx
Sputum
qRefCx Range of Values 103.5 to 104.0 to 105.0 to 106.0 to
(Concordant FilmArray <104.0 <105.0 <106.0 <107.0 ≥107.0 (≥107)
Overall
Bin) (104) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or 107)
Acinetobacter
1/5 1/1 0/2 3/3 0/0 5/11
calcoaceticus-
(20.0%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (-) (45.5%)
baumannii complex
Enterobacter 0/1 3/6 1/3 1/1 1/1 6/12
cloacae complex (0%) (50.0%) (33.3%) (100%) (100%) (50.0%)
2/3 1/13 2/5 1/1 2/2 8/24
Escherichia coli
(66.7%) (7.7%) (40.0%) (100%) (100%) (33.3%)
Haemophilus 0/0 0/12 1/4 2/2 0/0 3/18
influenzae (-) (0%) (25.0%) (100%) (-) (16.7%)
1/1 0/1 0/1 1/1 0/0 2/4
Klebsiella aerogenes
(100%) (0%) (0%) (100%) (-) (50.0%)
1/3 0/3 2/2 1/1 0/0 4/9
Klebsiella oxytoca
(33.3%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (-) (44.4%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae 3/6 2/7 5/7 2/2 0/1 12/23
group (50.0%) (28.6%) (71.4%) (100%) (0%) (52.2%)
0/1 0/1 0/1 1/1 1/1 2/5
Moraxella catarrhalis
(0%) (0%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (40.0%)
0/1 5/10 2/3 1/1 0/0 8/15
Proteus spp.
(0%) (50.0%) (66.7%) (100%) (-) (53.3%)
Pseudomonas 3/15 7/42 5/24 19/19 6/6 40/106
aeruginosa (20.0%) (16.7%) (20.8%) (100%) (100%) (37.7%)
0/4 4/12 3/6 4/4 1/1 12/27
Serratia marcescens
(0%) (16.7%) (50.0%) (100%) (100%) (44.4%)
1/18 11/45 13/28 12/13 7/8 44/112
Staphylococcus aureus
(5.6%) (24.4%) (46.4%) (92.3%) (87.5%) (39.3%)
95

[Table 1 on page 95]
BAL						
	(0%)	(25.0%)	0%)	(-)	(-)	(16.7%)
Staphylococcus aureus	0/11
(0.0%)	0/19
(0%)	1/9
(11.1%)	5/5
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	9/47
(19.1%)
Streptococcus
agalactiae	0/0
(-)	0/1
(0%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/1
(0%)
Streptococcus
pneumoniae	1/2
(50.0%)	1/2
(50.0%)	0/1
(0%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	2/5
(40.0%)
Streptococcus
pyogenes	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	2/2
(100%)

[Table 2 on page 95]
Sputum						
qRefCx Range of Values	103.5 to	104.0 to	105.0 to	106.0 to		
						
(Concordant FilmArray	<104.0	<105.0	<106.0	<107.0	≥107.0 (≥107)	
						Overall
Bin)	(104)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or 107)		
						
Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex	1/5
(20.0%)	1/1
(100%)	0/2
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	5/11
(45.5%)
Enterobacter
cloacae complex	0/1
(0%)	3/6
(50.0%)	1/3
(33.3%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	6/12
(50.0%)
Escherichia coli	2/3
(66.7%)	1/13
(7.7%)	2/5
(40.0%)	1/1
(100%)	2/2
(100%)	8/24
(33.3%)
Haemophilus
influenzae	0/0
(-)	0/12
(0%)	1/4
(25.0%)	2/2
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/18
(16.7%)
Klebsiella aerogenes	1/1
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	0/1
(0%)	1/1
(100%)	0/0
(-)	2/4
(50.0%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	1/3
(33.3%)	0/3
(0%)	2/2
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	0/0
(-)	4/9
(44.4%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae
group	3/6
(50.0%)	2/7
(28.6%)	5/7
(71.4%)	2/2
(100%)	0/1
(0%)	12/23
(52.2%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	0/1
(0%)	0/1
(0%)	0/1
(0%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	2/5
(40.0%)
Proteus spp.	0/1
(0%)	5/10
(50.0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	1/1
(100%)	0/0
(-)	8/15
(53.3%)
Pseudomonas
aeruginosa	3/15
(20.0%)	7/42
(16.7%)	5/24
(20.8%)	19/19
(100%)	6/6
(100%)	40/106
(37.7%)
Serratia marcescens	0/4
(0%)	4/12
(16.7%)	3/6
(50.0%)	4/4
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	12/27
(44.4%)
Staphylococcus aureus	1/18
(5.6%)	11/45
(24.4%)	13/28
(46.4%)	12/13
(92.3%)	7/8
(87.5%)	44/112
(39.3%)

--- Page 96 ---
Sputum
Streptococcus 0/3 1/5 0/1 0/0 0/0 1/9
agalactiae (0%) (20.0%) (0%) (-) (-) (11.1%)
Streptococcus 2/3 2/6 0/2 4/4 1/1 9/16
pneumoniae (66.7%) (33.3%) (0%) (100%) (100%) (56.3%)
Streptococcus 0/3 1/1 1/1 1/1 3/6
0/0 (-)
pyogenes (0%) (100%) (100%) (100%) (50.0%)
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin performance compared to standard of care culture (SOC)
comparator is shown for BAL (Table 85) and sputum (Table 86). For SOC, the various values that were
provided by the source lab were converted to “Few/Mod/Many” using the following rules:
Table 84: SOC values provided to source lab
Label Classification
Labels in Few: ['1colony', '2', '1+', 'rare', 'few', 'lightgrowth', 'light', '1+(few)', 100, 200, 500, 1000, '1000', 2000, 3000,
'3000', 4000, '4000', 5000, '5000', 6000, 8000, '1-10000', '<10000', '1000-10000', 'lessthan10000']
Labels in Moderate: ['3+', '2+', '2+(moderate)', 'moderate', 'moderategrowth', 'totalmicrobialgrowthmoderate', 'mod',
10000, '10000', '>10000', 11000, 15000, 20000, '20000', 25000, 30000, '35000', 40000, 50000, '50000', 60000, 65000,
75000, '80000']
Labels in Many: ['4+', 'many', 'heavygrowth', 'heavy', '4+(many)', 100000, '>100000']
Discarded Labels: ['1st', '2nd', '3rd', 'secondmostgrowth', 'thirdmostgrowth', 'reportedfirst(mostgrowth)',
'mostgrowth', 'mostgrowthof3', 'secondmostgrowthof3', 'leastgrowthofthe3', 'mostgrowth;2strainsidentified', 'n/a']
Table 85: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for BAL Specimens compared to
SOC
BAL
SOC Range of Values Few Moderate Many
Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or ≥107)
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii 1/2 0/0 0/0 1/2
complex (50.0%) (-) (-) (50.0%)
2/2 5/13 2/2 9/17
Enterobacter cloacae complex
(100%) (38.5%) (100%) (52.9%)
2/5 2/8 3/4 7/17
Escherichia coli
(40.0%) (25.0%) (75.0%) (41.2%)
0/0 4/16 9/9 13/25
Haemophilus influenzae
(-) (25.0%) (100%) (52.0%)
0/2 3/5 2/4 5/11
Klebsiella aerogenes
(0%) (60.0%) (50.0%) (45.5%)
2/4 0/2 0/1 2/7
Klebsiella oxytoca
(50.0%) (0%) (0%) (28.6%)
96

[Table 1 on page 96]
Sputum						
Streptococcus
agalactiae	0/3
(0%)	1/5
(20.0%)	0/1
(0%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	1/9
(11.1%)
Streptococcus
pneumoniae	2/3
(66.7%)	2/6
(33.3%)	0/2
(0%)	4/4
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	9/16
(56.3%)
Streptococcus
pyogenes	0/0 (-)	0/3
(0%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	1/1
(100%)	3/6
(50.0%)

[Table 2 on page 96]

Label Classification

Labels in Few: ['1colony', '2', '1+', 'rare', 'few', 'lightgrowth', 'light', '1+(few)', 100, 200, 500, 1000, '1000', 2000, 3000,
'3000', 4000, '4000', 5000, '5000', 6000, 8000, '1-10000', '<10000', '1000-10000', 'lessthan10000']
Labels in Moderate: ['3+', '2+', '2+(moderate)', 'moderate', 'moderategrowth', 'totalmicrobialgrowthmoderate', 'mod',
10000, '10000', '>10000', 11000, 15000, 20000, '20000', 25000, 30000, '35000', 40000, 50000, '50000', 60000, 65000,
75000, '80000']
Labels in Many: ['4+', 'many', 'heavygrowth', 'heavy', '4+(many)', 100000, '>100000']
Discarded Labels: ['1st', '2nd', '3rd', 'secondmostgrowth', 'thirdmostgrowth', 'reportedfirst(mostgrowth)',
'mostgrowth', 'mostgrowthof3', 'secondmostgrowthof3', 'leastgrowthofthe3', 'mostgrowth;2strainsidentified', 'n/a']

[Table 3 on page 96]
BAL				
SOC Range of Values	Few	Moderate	Many	
				Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or ≥107)	
				
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	1/2
(50.0%)	0/0
(-)	0/0
(-)	1/2
(50.0%)
Enterobacter cloacae complex	2/2
(100%)	5/13
(38.5%)	2/2
(100%)	9/17
(52.9%)
Escherichia coli	2/5
(40.0%)	2/8
(25.0%)	3/4
(75.0%)	7/17
(41.2%)
Haemophilus influenzae	0/0
(-)	4/16
(25.0%)	9/9
(100%)	13/25
(52.0%)
Klebsiella aerogenes	0/2
(0%)	3/5
(60.0%)	2/4
(50.0%)	5/11
(45.5%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	2/4
(50.0%)	0/2
(0%)	0/1
(0%)	2/7
(28.6%)

--- Page 97 ---
BAL
7/10 4/5 4/4 15/19
Klebsiella pneumoniae group
(70.0%) (80.0%) (100%) (78.9%)
0/0 1/3 6/6 7/9
Moraxella catarrhalis
(-) (33.3%) (100%) (77.8%)
1/1 1/2 2/2 4/5
Proteus spp.
(100%) (50.0%) (100%) (80.0%)
7/15 11/23 14/14 32/52
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(46.7%) (47.8%) (100%) (61.5%)
0/0 4/7 1/1 5/8
Serratia marcescens
(-) (57.1%) (100%) (62.5%)
12/21 16/36 18/18 46/75
Staphylococcus aureus
(57.1%) (44.4%) (100%) (61.3%)
0/0 0/2 2/2 2/4
Streptococcus agalactiae a
(-) (0%) (100%) (50.0%)
3/5 5/5 3/3 11/13
Streptococcus pneumoniae
(60.0%) (100%) (100%) (84.6%)
2/2 2/3 0/0 4/5
Streptococcus pyogenes
(100%) (66.7%) (-) (80.0%)
a Semi-quantitative information not provided for one specimen in which S. agalactiae was isolated by SOC culture
97

[Table 1 on page 97]
BAL				
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	7/10
(70.0%)	4/5
(80.0%)	4/4
(100%)	15/19
(78.9%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	0/0
(-)	1/3
(33.3%)	6/6
(100%)	7/9
(77.8%)
Proteus spp.	1/1
(100%)	1/2
(50.0%)	2/2
(100%)	4/5
(80.0%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	7/15
(46.7%)	11/23
(47.8%)	14/14
(100%)	32/52
(61.5%)
Serratia marcescens	0/0
(-)	4/7
(57.1%)	1/1
(100%)	5/8
(62.5%)
Staphylococcus aureus	12/21
(57.1%)	16/36
(44.4%)	18/18
(100%)	46/75
(61.3%)
Streptococcus agalactiae a	0/0
(-)	0/2
(0%)	2/2
(100%)	2/4
(50.0%)
Streptococcus pneumoniae	3/5
(60.0%)	5/5
(100%)	3/3
(100%)	11/13
(84.6%)
Streptococcus pyogenes	2/2
(100%)	2/3
(66.7%)	0/0
(-)	4/5
(80.0%)

--- Page 98 ---
Table 86: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Bin Performance Summary for Sputum Specimens compared
to SOC
Sputum
SOC Range of Values Few Moderate Many
Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin) (104 or 105) (105 or 106) (106 or ≥107)
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii 4/6 1/4 2/3 7/13
complex (66.7%) (25.0%) (66.7%) (53.8%)
1/2 4/8 1/2 6/12
Enterobacter cloacae complex
(50.0%) (50.0%) (50.0%) (50.0%)
4/8 1/4 5/5 10/17
Escherichia coli
(50.0%) (25.0%) (100%) (58.8%)
2/3 1/0 15/16 18/29
Haemophilus influenzae
(66.7%) (10.0%) (93.8%) (62.1%)
2/2 0/3 0/0 2/5
Klebsiella aerogenes
(100%) (0%) (-) (40.0%)
0/3 3/3 0/0 3/6
Klebsiella oxytoca
(0%) (100%) (-) (50.0%)
10/14 4/13 1/1 15/28
Klebsiella pneumoniae group
(71.4%) (30.8%) (100%) (53.6%)
1/3 1/5 15/15 17/23
Moraxella catarrhalis
(33.3%) (20.0%) (100%) (73.9%)
0/2 2/3 0/1 2/6
Proteus spp.
(0%) (66.7%) (0%) (33.3%)
14/37 9/41 22/25 45/103
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(37.8%) (22.0%) (88.0%) (43.7%)
6/10 6/11 4/4 16/25
Serratia marcescens
(60.0%) (54.5%) (100%) (64.0%)
27/41 19/41 31/35 77/117
Staphylococcus aureus
(65.9%) (46.3%) (88.6%) (65.8%)
2/3 0/1 4/4 6/8
Streptococcus agalactiaea
(6.7%) (0%) (100%) (75.0%)
0/1 3/7 1/2 4/10
Streptococcus pneumoniae
(0%) (42.9%) (50.0%) (40.0%)
0/1 0/2 2/3 2/6
Streptococcus pyogenes
(0%) (0%) (66.7%) (33.3%)
a. Semi-quantitative information not provided for two specimens in which A. calcoaceticus-baumannii complex was isolated by SOC culture
b. Semi-quantitative information not provided for one specimen in which E. cloacae complex was isolated by SOC culture
c. Semi-quantitative information not provided for five specimens in which E. coli was isolated by SOC culture
d. Semi-quantitative information not provided for three specimens in which H. influenzae was isolated by SOC culture
e. Semi-quantitative information not provided for two specimens in which K. aerogenes was isolated by SOC culture
f. Semi-quantitative information not provided for two specimens in which K. oxytoca was isolated by SOC culture
g. Semi-quantitative information not provided for five specimens in which K. pneumoniae group was isolated by SOC culture
h. Semi-quantitative information not provided for one specimen in which M. catarrhalis was isolated by SOC culture
i. Semi-quantitative information not provided for one specimen in which Proteus spp. was isolated by SOC culture
j. Semi-quantitative information not provided for 19 specimens in which P. aeruginosa was isolated by SOC culture
k. Semi-quantitative information not provided for four specimens in which S. marcescens was isolated by SOC culture
98

[Table 1 on page 98]
Sputum				
SOC Range of Values	Few	Moderate	Many	
				Overall
(Concordant FilmArray Bin)	(104 or 105)	(105 or 106)	(106 or ≥107)	
				
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	4/6
(66.7%)	1/4
(25.0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	7/13
(53.8%)
Enterobacter cloacae complex	1/2
(50.0%)	4/8
(50.0%)	1/2
(50.0%)	6/12
(50.0%)
Escherichia coli	4/8
(50.0%)	1/4
(25.0%)	5/5
(100%)	10/17
(58.8%)
Haemophilus influenzae	2/3
(66.7%)	1/0
(10.0%)	15/16
(93.8%)	18/29
(62.1%)
Klebsiella aerogenes	2/2
(100%)	0/3
(0%)	0/0
(-)	2/5
(40.0%)
Klebsiella oxytoca	0/3
(0%)	3/3
(100%)	0/0
(-)	3/6
(50.0%)
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	10/14
(71.4%)	4/13
(30.8%)	1/1
(100%)	15/28
(53.6%)
Moraxella catarrhalis	1/3
(33.3%)	1/5
(20.0%)	15/15
(100%)	17/23
(73.9%)
Proteus spp.	0/2
(0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	0/1
(0%)	2/6
(33.3%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	14/37
(37.8%)	9/41
(22.0%)	22/25
(88.0%)	45/103
(43.7%)
Serratia marcescens	6/10
(60.0%)	6/11
(54.5%)	4/4
(100%)	16/25
(64.0%)
Staphylococcus aureus	27/41
(65.9%)	19/41
(46.3%)	31/35
(88.6%)	77/117
(65.8%)
Streptococcus agalactiaea	2/3
(6.7%)	0/1
(0%)	4/4
(100%)	6/8
(75.0%)
Streptococcus pneumoniae	0/1
(0%)	3/7
(42.9%)	1/2
(50.0%)	4/10
(40.0%)
Streptococcus pyogenes	0/1
(0%)	0/2
(0%)	2/3
(66.7%)	2/6
(33.3%)

--- Page 99 ---
l. Semi-quantitative information not provided for 16 specimens in which S. aureus was isolated by SOC culture
m. Semi-quantitative information not provided for two specimens in which S. agalactiae was isolated by SOC culture
n.Semi-quantitative information not provided for three specimens in which S. pneumoniae was isolated by SOC culture
A ‘rank order’ analysis was performed on polymicrobial specimens to compare the relative abundance
of each analyte within a specimen as reported by qRefCx to the order reported by the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel. In this analysis, there were 20 specimens with two or more organisms reported by
qRefCx for BAL and 84 for sputum. In these specimens, the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel was in
agreement with qRefCx for the most abundant organism 45.0% of the time (9/20) for BAL and 41.7%
of the time (35/84) for sputum. For the second most abundant organism, the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel was in agreement with qRefCx 30.0% of the time (6/20) for BAL and 26.2% of the time (22/84)
for sputum and was in agreement for the third most abundant organism 7.7% of the time (1/13) for BAL
and 3.8% of the time (2/52) for sputum.
Table 87: Concordance of Abundance in Polymicrobial Specimens (as compared to qRefCx)
BAL Sputum
Ranking Performance
Correct Total % Correct Total %
Most Abundant 9 20 45.0% 35 84 41.7%
Second Most Abundant 6 20 30.0% 22 84 26.2%
Third Most Abundant 1 13 7.7% 2 52 3.8%
‘Rank concordance’ analysis was performed on polymicrobial specimens to determine the ability of the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel to measure relative abundance of the nucleic acid for an organism with
respect to other organisms in the specimen, as compared to qRefCx. In this analysis, the detected
organisms from individual polymicrobial specimens (110 BAL and 246 sputum) were ranked in
descending order based on their quantification values from qRefCx. The rank determined by the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel bin result was compared to the qRefCx ranking. False positives results
were always considered discordant (i.e. only exact rank matches are considered concordant).
Table 88: Concordance of Organism Ranking in Polymicrobial Specimens (as compared to qRefCx);
false positive results considered discordant
BAL Sputum
Ranking Performance
Concordant Total % Concordant Total %
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex 1 6 16.7% 7 25 28.0%
Enterobacter aerogenes 4 9 44.4% 4 9 44.4%
Enterobacter cloacae complex 9 14 64.3% 9 25 36.0%
Escherichia coli 6 13 46.2% 14 39 35.9%
Haemophilus influenzae 9 47 19.1% 10 62 16.1%
Klebsiella oxytoca 3 10 30.0% 5 17 29.4%
99

[Table 1 on page 99]
		BAL			Sputum	
Ranking Performance						
	Correct	Total	%	Correct	Total	%
						
						
Most Abundant	9	20	45.0%	35	84	41.7%
Second Most Abundant	6	20	30.0%	22	84	26.2%
Third Most Abundant	1	13	7.7%	2	52	3.8%

[Table 2 on page 99]
	BAL			Sputum		
Ranking Performance						
	Concordant	Total	%	Concordant	Total	%
						
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii complex	1	6	16.7%	7	25	28.0%
Enterobacter aerogenes	4	9	44.4%	4	9	44.4%
Enterobacter cloacae complex	9	14	64.3%	9	25	36.0%
Escherichia coli	6	13	46.2%	14	39	35.9%
Haemophilus influenzae	9	47	19.1%	10	62	16.1%
Klebsiella oxytoca	3	10	30.0%	5	17	29.4%

--- Page 100 ---
BAL Sputum
Ranking Performance
Concordant Total % Concordant Total %
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 8 16 50.0% 15 43 34.9%
Moraxella catarrhalis 0 15 0.0% 3 59 5.1%
Proteus spp. 2 6 33.3% 5 20 25.0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 17 25 68.0% 59 107 55.1%
Serratia marcescens 5 10 50.0% 17 43 39.5%
Staphylococcus aureus 30 55 54.5% 59 141 41.8%
Streptococcus agalactiae 6 19 31.6% 10 35 28.6%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 4 23 17.4% 7 37 18.9%
Streptococcus pyogenes 1 5 20.0% 2 5 40.0%
The overall success rate for initial specimen tests in the prospective study was 98.1% (1764/1798); 34
tests were unsuccessful (two due to an incomplete test and 32 due to control failures). Two tests
(2/1798; 0.1%) did not complete on the initial run, resulting in an instrument success rate of 99.9%
(1796/1798) for initial specimen tests. Both specimens were able to be retested and valid results were
produced after a single retest.
Thirty-two (32) tests (32/1764; 1.8%) did not produce valid pouch controls, resulting in a pouch control
success rate of 98.2% (1764/1796) for completed runs in the initial specimen tests. Twenty-eight (28) of
the 32 invalid specimens were able to be retested; 25 produced valid control results after a single retest,
while the remaining three did not produce valid control results after retesting and were not able to be
retested further due to insufficient specimen volume; four were not able to be retested at all due to
insufficient specimen volume.
Two additional studies were also conducted to demonstrate all aspects of clinical performance (see
Testing of Preselected Archived Specimens and Testing of Contrived Specimens below).
Testing of Preselected Archived Specimens
Some of the analytes on the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel were of low prevalence and were not
encountered in large enough numbers during the prospective study to adequately demonstrate system
performance. To supplement the results of the prospective clinical study, an evaluation of preselected
archived retrospective specimens was performed at BioFire.
A total of 171 frozen archived specimens were received for testing from external laboratories. Eighteen
(18) specimens were negatives (13 BAL and 5 sputum) and 153 specimens (139 BAL and 14 sputum)
contained at least one analyte of interest. Twenty-two (22) specimens contained two or more analytes of
interest. The set included specimens known to be positive for: Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex, Klebsiella aerogenes, Klebsiella oxytoca, Proteus spp., Serratia marcescens, Streptococcus
100

[Table 1 on page 100]
	BAL			Sputum		
Ranking Performance						
	Concordant	Total	%	Concordant	Total	%
						
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	8	16	50.0%	15	43	34.9%
Moraxella catarrhalis	0	15	0.0%	3	59	5.1%
Proteus spp.	2	6	33.3%	5	20	25.0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	17	25	68.0%	59	107	55.1%
Serratia marcescens	5	10	50.0%	17	43	39.5%
Staphylococcus aureus	30	55	54.5%	59	141	41.8%
Streptococcus agalactiae	6	19	31.6%	10	35	28.6%
Streptococcus pneumoniae	4	23	17.4%	7	37	18.9%
Streptococcus pyogenes	1	5	20.0%	2	5	40.0%

--- Page 101 ---
pyogenes, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, adenovirus, human metapneumovirus,
influenza A, influenza B, parainfluenza virus (PIV), respiratory syncytial virus, various gram-negative
bacteria with extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL) phenotype, and various gram-negative bacteria
with a carbapenem resistant phenotype.
Prior to testing with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, the composition/integrity of the specimens was
first confirmed with confirmatory molecular methods. At the completion of testing, four specimens were
excluded due to invalid confirmation tests; these specimens had insufficient volume for retesting.
Results from the remaining 18 negative and 149 positive specimens (containing 173 analytes) are
presented in the Tables below.
The reported analyte (as determined by the source laboratory) was confirmed for 17 analytes (107 in
BAL and 10 in sputum) of the expected positive results (117/173; 67.6 %) of the expected positive
results (116/173; 67.1 %). More than three quarters of the unconfirmed analytes were specimens
previously identified as positive for gram-negative bacteria exhibiting phenotypic ESBL or
carbapenamase activity (44/57; 77.2%). This is expected since this phenotypic activity can be conferred
by alternative mechanisms beyond the antibiotic resistance genes found on the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel. Specimens with unconfirmed (or unexpected) analytes were excluded from performance
calculations for that particular analyte and FilmArray test results are reported separately.
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel demonstrated positive percent agreement (PPA) of 100% with
previous laboratory results for 11 of 14 analytes tested in BAL specimens (Table 89) and all of the
analytes tested in sputum specimens (Table 90). The exceptions were Klebsiella aerogenes, Proteus spp.
and RSV with a PPA of 50.0%, 80.0%, and 93.8% respectively, due to one false negative (FN) for each
analyte. While PPA for most analytes was 100%, an insufficient number of specimens were tested for all
but influenza A, parainfluenza virus, and respiratory syncytial virus in BAL. Contrived specimen testing
was used to demonstrate performance for these analytes in an additional contrived study (see Testing of
Contrived Specimens). Negative percent agreement (NPA) was 100% for all analytes except
parainfluenza virus in BAL and influenza A in sputum; however, NPA was more thoroughly evaluated
in the prospective clinical study.
Table 89: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Archived BAL Specimen Performance Data Summary
PPA NPA
Analyte TP/ TN/
% 95% CI % 95% CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Quantitative Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
4/4 100 51.0-100% 53/53 100 93.2-100%
complex
Klebsiella aerogenes 1/2 50.0 - 53/53 100 93.2-100%
Proteus spp. 4/5 80.0 37.6-96.4% 48/48 100 92.6-100%
101

[Table 1 on page 101]
Analyte					PPA										NPA						
							TP/				%	95% CI				TN/			%	95% CI	
						(TP + FN)									(TN + FP)						
	Q	uantitative Bacteria																			
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex				4/4							100	51.0-100%		53/53					100	93.2-100%	
Klebsiella aerogenes				1/2							50.0	-		53/53					100	93.2-100%	
Proteus spp.				4/5							80.0	37.6-96.4%		48/48					100	92.6-100%	

[Table 2 on page 101]
	%	

[Table 3 on page 101]
	95% CI	

[Table 4 on page 101]
	%	

[Table 5 on page 101]
	95% CI	

--- Page 102 ---
PPA NPA
Analyte TP/ TN/
% 95% CI % 95% CI
(TP + FN) (TN + FP)
Serratia marcescens 10/10 100 72.2-100% 46/46 100 92.3-100%
Streptococcus pyogenes 1/1 100 - 57/57 100 93.7-100%
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
CTX-M 7/7 100 64.6-100% 29/29 100 88.3-100%
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae 1/1 100 - 90/90 100 95.9-100%
Legionella pneumophila 1/1 100 - 57/57 100 93.7-100%
Viruses
Adenovirus 8/8 100 67.6-100% 81/81 100 95.5-100%
Human Metapneumovirus 11/11 100 74.1-100% 77/77 100 95.2-100%
Influenza A 21/21 100 84.5-100% 69/69 100 94.7-100%
Influenza B 3/3 100 43.9-100% 86/86 100 95.7-100%
Parainfluenza Virus 17/17 100 81.6-100% 68/69 99.0 92.2-99.7%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 15/16 93.8 71.7-98.9% 74/74 100 95.1-100%
Table 90: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Archived Sputum Specimen Performance Data Summary
PPA NPA
Analyte
TP/(TP + FN) % 95% CI TN/(TN + FP) % 95% CI
Quantitative Bacteria
Streptococcus pyogenes 7/7 100 64.6-100% 8/8 100 67.6-100%
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
CTX-M 1/1 100 - 12/12 100 75.8-100%
Viruses
Influenza A 2/2 100 34.2-100% 0/1 0 -
Testing of Contrived Specimens
A prospective clinical evaluation of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel was performed during the 2016-
2017 respiratory infection season at several geographically diverse clinical laboratories. Over 1600
specimens were analyzed from subjects whose specimens were submitted for microbial evaluation of
lower respiratory tract pathogens. In the prospective study, some analytes were of insufficient
prevalence to adequately demonstrate system performance and additional archived, preselected positive
specimens containing rare analytes were also tested. Several analytes were so rare that both prospective
and archived testing efforts were insufficient to demonstrate system performance. In this study,
contrived clinical specimens were created to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel assays for these rare analytes (Table 91).
102

[Table 1 on page 102]
Analyte				PPA													NPA						
							TP/				%		95% CI					TN/			%	95% CI	
					(TP + FN)												(TN + FP)						
Serratia marcescens			10/10								100		72.2-100%			46/46					100	92.3-100%	
Streptococcus pyogenes			1/1								100		-			57/57					100	93.7-100%	
		Antimicrobial Resistance Genes																					
CTX-M			7/7								100		64.6-100%			29/29					100	88.3-100%	
						Atypical Bacteria																	
Chlamydia pneumoniae			1/1								100		-			90/90					100	95.9-100%	
Legionella pneumophila			1/1								100		-			57/57					100	93.7-100%	
								Viruses															
Adenovirus			8/8								100		67.6-100%			81/81					100	95.5-100%	
Human Metapneumovirus			11/11								100		74.1-100%			77/77					100	95.2-100%	
Influenza A			21/21								100		84.5-100%			69/69					100	94.7-100%	
Influenza B			3/3								100		43.9-100%			86/86					100	95.7-100%	
Parainfluenza Virus			17/17								100		81.6-100%			68/69					99.0	92.2-99.7%	
Respiratory Syncytial Virus			15/16								93.8		71.7-98.9%			74/74					100	95.1-100%	

[Table 2 on page 102]
	%	

[Table 3 on page 102]
	95% CI	

[Table 4 on page 102]
	%	

[Table 5 on page 102]
	95% CI	

[Table 6 on page 102]
Analyte				PPA									NPA							
				TP/(TP + FN)			%			95% CI			TN/(TN + FP)			%			95% CI	
	Quantitative Bacteria																			
Streptococcus pyogenes			7/7			100			64.6-100%			8/8			100			67.6-100%		
	Antimicrobial Resistance Genes																			
CTX-M			1/1			100			-			12/12			100			75.8-100%		
	Viruses																			
Influenza A			2/2			100			34.2-100%			0/1			0			-		

--- Page 103 ---
Table 91: Contrived Clinical Specimen Analytes
Matrix
Analyte
BAL Sputum
Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
X
complex
Klebsiella aerogenes X X
Klebsiella oxytoca X
Proteus spp. X
Serratia marcescens X
Streptococcus pyogenes X X
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae X X
Legionella pneumophila X X
Mycoplasma pneumoniae X X
Viruses
Adenovirus X X
Human Metapneumovirus X X
Influenza A X X
Influenza B X X
Antibiotic Resistance Markers
CTX-M X X
IMP X X
KPC X X
NDM X X
OXA-48-like X X
VIM X X
Contrived specimens (N=1125) were spiked using residual clinical samples that were pre-screened with
the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and found to be negative for the analytes of interest. Specimens were
spiked with a variety of different isolates/strains for each organism at concentrations spanning observed
ranges in clinical specimens. Different isolates of organisms were used from those used in analytical
testing when possible. Samples positive for one analyte served as negatives for other analytes.
For the majority of analytes reported qualitatively, at least 25 of the contrived positive specimens had
analyte concentrations at 2 × the limit of detection (LoD), while the remaining specimens were tested at
103

[Table 1 on page 103]
Analyte			Matrix				
			BAL			Sputum	
	Bacteria						
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex		X					
Klebsiella aerogenes		X			X		
Klebsiella oxytoca		X					
Proteus spp.		X					
Serratia marcescens		X					
Streptococcus pyogenes		X			X		
	Atypical Bacteria						
Chlamydia pneumoniae		X			X		
Legionella pneumophila		X			X		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae		X			X		
	Viruses						
Adenovirus		X			X		
Human Metapneumovirus		X			X		
Influenza A		X			X		
Influenza B		X			X		
	Antibiotic Resistance Markers						
CTX-M		X			X		
IMP		X			X		
KPC		X			X		
NDM		X			X		
OXA-48-like		X			X		
VIM		X			X		

--- Page 104 ---
additional concentrations that spanned clinically observed ranges. The “clinically observed range” was
based on data from previous FilmArray Pneumonia Panel positive test results (e.g. observations from the
prospective or archived studies). If a clinically observed range could not be determined for a particular
analyte, specimens were spiked at various factors of LoD. If the stock concentration of organism did not
allow for spiking at the highest level, the highest achievable level was used. For bacteria reported with
binned values, specimens were spiked at various concentrations starting just below and then spanning
the reported levels (i.e. 103 to ≥107 copies /mL).
Specimens were prepared and randomized at BioFire such that the analyte status of each contrived
specimen was unknown to the users performing the testing. BAL and sputum specimens were analyzed
separately; however, the preparation and testing for both matrices were identical. Contrived specimens
were frozen, then distributed to prospective study sites and tested according to the prospective clinical
study protocol alongside clinical (non-contrived) specimens.
The positive percent agreement (PPA) and negative percent agreement (NPA) for the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel assays were determined using standard binomial sampling statistics. In this study, a
success was defined as agreement between the known composition of the contrived specimen and the
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel result; i.e., a positive FilmArray Pneumonia Panel result for spiked samples
(True Positive, TP) and a negative FilmArray Pneumonia Panel result for un-spiked samples (True
Negative, TN).
The results of the 1125 specimens tested in this study are summarized in Table 92 for BAL and Table 93
for sputum below.
The majority of analytes in both specimen types met the performance goals of 90% PPA with an 80%
lower bound of the 95% CI and 98% NPA with a 95% lower bound of the 95% CI. The exceptions being
influenza A spiked into BAL and Klebsiella aerogenes spiked into BAL and sputum. Influenza A spiked
in BAL demonstrated 86% PPA in part due to two missed detections at 0.2 × LoD and two additional
missed detections at 2 × LoD from a strain that may have been under-quantified. However, FilmArray
performance goals for influenza A in BAL were achieved in the archived study. Klebsiella aerogenes
spiked in both sample types demonstrated 85.5% PPA in part due to five missed detections in BAL and
four missed detections in sputum at a range of concentrations from a Klebsiella aerogenes strain that
demonstrated poor reactivity with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel.
Samples spiked with bacterial analytes just below the 10˄4 copies/mL binned value (i.e., near
1.00E+03), and samples spiked with other analytes below their LoD (i.e., near 0.2 × LoD), produced the
expected unreliable detection.
104

--- Page 105 ---
Table 92: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Performance of Contrived BAL Specimens
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Analyte
TP/(TP + FN) % 95% CI TN/(TN + FP) % 95% CI
Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-
47/50 94.0 83.8-97.9% 598/598 100 99.4-100%
baumannii complex
Klebsiella aerogenes a 47/55 85.5 73.8-92.4% 592/594 99.7 98.8-99.9%
Klebsiella oxytoca 46/50 92.0 81.2-96.8% 604/604 100 99.4-100%
Proteus spp. 48/50 96.0 86.5-98.9% 603/603 100 99.4-100%
Serratia marcescens 49/50 98.0 89.5-99.6% 604/604 100 99.4-100%
Streptococcus pyogenes 49/50 98.0 89.5-99.6% 597/597 100 99.4-100%
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae 47/50 94.0 83.8-97.9% 604/604 100 99.4-100%
Legionella pneumophila 50/50 100 92.9-100% 599/599 100 99.4-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 48/50 96.0 86.5-98.9% 603/604 99.8 99.1-100%
Viruses
Adenovirus 50/53 94.3 84.6-98.1% 568/569 99.8 99.0-100%
Human Metapneumovirus 50/50 100 92.9-100% 597/598 99.8 99.1-100%
Influenza Ab 43/50 86.0 73.8-93.0% 585/585 100 99.3-100%
Influenza Bc 47/50 94.0 83.8-97.9% 588/589 99.8 99.0-100%
Antibiotic Resistance Markers
CTX-M 130/130 100 97.1-100% 323/324 99.7 98.3-100%
IMP 45/45 100 92.1-100% 412/412 100 99.1-100%
KPC 53/53 100 93.2-100% 400/400 100 99.1-100%
NDM 53/53 100 93.2-100% 404/404 100 99.1-100%
OXA-48-like 53/53 100 93.2-100% 307/307 100 98.8-100%
VIM 58/58 100 93.8-100% 399/399 100 99.0-100%
a. Five FN specimens were spiked with an K. aerogenes (previously E. aerogenes) strain (ATCC 29751) that demonstrated poor reactivity with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
(see Table 8).
b. Two FN specimens were spiked with an influenza A strain that may have been under-quantified
c. Three FN specimens were spiked with an influenza B strain that may have been under-quantified
Table 93: FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Performance of Contrived Sputum Specimens
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Analyte
TP/(TP + FN) % 95% CI TN/(TN + FP) % 95% CI
Bacteria
Klebsiella aerogenesa 47/55 85.5 73.8-92.4% 513/513 100 99.3-100%
Streptococcus pyogenes 48/50 96.0 86.5-98.9% 516/516 100 99.3-100%
Atypical Bacteria
Chlamydia pneumoniae 49/50 98.0 89.5-99.6% 521/521 100 99.3-100%
Legionella pneumophila 50/50 100 92.9-100% 521/521 100 99.3-100%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 48/50 96.0 86.5-98.9% 521/521 100 99.3-100%
105

[Table 1 on page 105]
Analyte			Sensitivity/PPA									Specificity/NPA							
			TP/(TP + FN)			%			95% CI			TN/(TN + FP)			%			95% CI	
	Bacteria																		
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-
baumannii complex		47/50			94.0			83.8-97.9%			598/598			100			99.4-100%		
Klebsiella aerogenes a		47/55			85.5			73.8-92.4%			592/594			99.7			98.8-99.9%		
Klebsiella oxytoca		46/50			92.0			81.2-96.8%			604/604			100			99.4-100%		
Proteus spp.		48/50			96.0			86.5-98.9%			603/603			100			99.4-100%		
Serratia marcescens		49/50			98.0			89.5-99.6%			604/604			100			99.4-100%		
Streptococcus pyogenes		49/50			98.0			89.5-99.6%			597/597			100			99.4-100%		
	Atypical Bacteria																		
Chlamydia pneumoniae		47/50			94.0			83.8-97.9%			604/604			100			99.4-100%		
Legionella pneumophila		50/50			100			92.9-100%			599/599			100			99.4-100%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae		48/50			96.0			86.5-98.9%			603/604			99.8			99.1-100%		
	Viruses																		
Adenovirus		50/53			94.3		84.6-98.1%			568/569			99.8			99.0-100%			
Human Metapneumovirus		50/50			100		92.9-100%			597/598			99.8			99.1-100%			
Influenza Ab		43/50			86.0		73.8-93.0%			585/585			100			99.3-100%			
Influenza Bc		47/50			94.0		83.8-97.9%			588/589			99.8			99.0-100%			
	Antibiotic Resistance Markers																		
CTX-M		130/130				100		97.1-100%			323/324			99.7			98.3-100%		
IMP		45/45				100		92.1-100%			412/412			100			99.1-100%		
KPC		53/53				100		93.2-100%			400/400			100			99.1-100%		
NDM		53/53				100		93.2-100%			404/404			100			99.1-100%		
OXA-48-like		53/53				100		93.2-100%			307/307			100			98.8-100%		
VIM		58/58				100		93.8-100%			399/399			100			99.0-100%		

[Table 2 on page 105]
Analyte			Sensitivity/PPA									Specificity/NPA									
			TP/(TP + FN)			%			95% CI			TN/(TN + FP)				%				95% CI	
	Bacteria																				
Klebsiella aerogenesa		47/55			85.5			73.8-92.4%			513/513		100				99.3-100%				
Streptococcus pyogenes		48/50			96.0			86.5-98.9%			516/516		100				99.3-100%				
	Atypical Bacteria																				
Chlamydia pneumoniae		49/50			98.0			89.5-99.6%			521/521		100				99.3-100%				
Legionella pneumophila		50/50			100			92.9-100%			521/521		100				99.3-100%				
Mycoplasma pneumoniae		48/50			96.0			86.5-98.9%			521/521		100				99.3-100%				

--- Page 106 ---
Sensitivity/PPA Specificity/NPA
Analyte
TP/(TP + FN) % 95% CI TN/(TN + FP) % 95% CI
Viruses
Adenovirus 50/52 96.2 87.0-98.9% 494/494 100 99.2-100%
Human Metapneumovirus 51/51 100 93.0-100% 520/520 100 99.3-100%
Influenza Ab 47/50 94.0 83.8-97.9% 517/521 99.2 98.0-99.7%
Influenza Bc 48/51 94.1 84.1-98.0% 516/517 99.8 98.9-100%
Antibiotic Resistance Markers
CTX-M 121/122 99.2 95.6-99.9% 289/290 99.7 98.1-99.9%
IMP 43/44 97.7 88.2-99.6% 381/381 100 99.0-100%
KPC 54/54 100 93.4-100% 360/361 99.7 98.4-100%
NDM 53/53 100 93.2-100% 372/372 100 99.0-100%
OXA-48-like 51/51 100 93.0-100% 232/232 100 98.4-100%
VIM 56/56 100 93.6-100% 369/369 100 99.0-100%
a. Four FN specimens were spiked with an K. aerogenes (previously E. aerogenes) strain (ATCC 29751) that demonstrated poor reactivity with the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
(see Table 8).
b. Two FN specimens were spiked with an influenza A strain that may have been under-quantified
c. Two FN specimens were spiked with an influenza B strain that may have been under-quantified
Testing of Polymicrobial Contrived Specimens
Additionally, two sets of individual BAL (N=60) and sputum (N=60) specimens were multi-spiked with
randomized low (104 copies/mL), medium (105.5 copies/mL) and high (107 copies/mL) relative
concentrations of either A. baumannii, E. cloacae and E. coli or K. oxytoca, P. mirabilis and S.
marcescens. As shown in Table 94 and Table 95, the majority of the spiked organisms were reported at
the expected relative low, medium, or high bin level by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel. In four BAL
specimens, E. cloacae was intended to be spiked at a medium level but was reported in a in a high
(≥107) bin. Also, one specimen spiked with a high level of P. mirabilis was not detected (i.e. a false
negative result for P. mirabilis).
Table 94: Polymicrobial Sputum Specimen Results
Organism Spiked Into Sputum
FilmArray Result
Total
Low Medium High
106
leveL
ekipS
Low 60 0 0 60
(104 copies/mL)
Medium
0 60 0 60
(105.5 copies/mL)
High
0 0 60 60
(107 copies/mL)
Table 95: Polymicrobial BAL Specimen Results

[Table 1 on page 106]
Analyte			Sensitivity/PPA									Specificity/NPA											
			TP/(TP + FN)			%			95% CI			TN/(TN + FP)					%					95% CI	
	Viruses																						
Adenovirus		50/52			96.2			87.0-98.9%			494/494		100					99.2-100%					
Human Metapneumovirus		51/51			100			93.0-100%			520/520		100					99.3-100%					
Influenza Ab		47/50			94.0			83.8-97.9%			517/521		99.2					98.0-99.7%					
Influenza Bc		48/51			94.1			84.1-98.0%			516/517		99.8					98.9-100%					
	Antibiotic Resistance Markers																						
CTX-M		121/122			99.2			95.6-99.9%			289/290			99.7					98.1-99.9%				
IMP		43/44			97.7			88.2-99.6%			381/381			100					99.0-100%				
KPC		54/54			100			93.4-100%			360/361			99.7					98.4-100%				
NDM		53/53			100			93.2-100%			372/372			100					99.0-100%				
OXA-48-like		51/51			100			93.0-100%			232/232			100					98.4-100%				
VIM		56/56			100			93.6-100%			369/369			100					99.0-100%				

[Table 2 on page 106]
Organism Spiked Into Sputum							
				FilmArray Result			
							Total
				Low	Medium	High	
							
	leveL
ekipS		Low		0	0	60
				60			
			(104 copies/mL)				
							
			Medium	0		0	60
					60		
			(105.5 copies/mL)				
							
			High	0	0		60
						60	
			(107 copies/mL)				
							

--- Page 107 ---
Organism Spiked Into BAL
FilmArray Result
Total
Low Medium High
107
leveL
ekipS
Low 60 0 0 60
(104 copies/mL)
Medium
0 56 4a 60
(105.5 copies/mL)
High
0 0 59 59b
(107 copies/mL)
a Quantified at the bin boundary and reported as>=107
b One false negative result
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
In the prospective clinical evaluation of the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, 846 BAL (including mini-BAL) and
836 sputum (including ETA) specimens, were collected and tested at eight study sites across the United States
over approximately ten months (October 2016 to July 2017). Expected value (as determined by FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel) summaries for BAL and sputum specimens are stratified by subject age and care setting in
Tables 96 through 101.

[Table 1 on page 107]
Organism Spiked Into BAL							
				FilmArray Result			
							Total
				Low	Medium	High	
							
	leveL
ekipS		Low		0	0	60
				60			
			(104 copies/mL)				
							
			Medium	0		4a	60
					56		
			(105.5 copies/mL)				
							
			High	0	0		59b
						59	
			(107 copies/mL)				
							

--- Page 108 ---
Table 96: Expected Value (EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel:
Summary by Age Group for BAL Specimens Collected from Hospitalized Subjects During the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)
108

--- Page 109 ---
BAL
Overall
Hospitalized (N=666)
(N=846)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=8) 6-17 (N=18) 18-34 (N=61) 35-65 (N=366) >65 (N=212)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 4 1.1% 2 0.9%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 23 2.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 10 2.7% 12 5.7%
Escherichia coli 20 2.4% 0 0% 0 0% 3 4.9% 8 2.2% 7 3.3%
Haemophilus influenzae 82 9.7% 2 25.0% 6 33.3% 6 9.8% 38 10.4% 8 3.8%
Klebsiella aerogenes 13 1.5% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.6% 4 1.1% 7 3.3%
Klebsiella oxytoca 11 1.3% 1 12.5% 0 0% 2 3.3% 5 1.4% 2 0.9%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 27 3.2% 1 12.5% 0 0% 2 3.3% 10 2.7% 9 4.2%
Moraxella catarrhalis 29 3.4% 3 37.5% 1 5.6% 1 1.6% 10 2.7% 2 0.9%
Proteus spp. 9 1.1% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.6% 2 0.5% 6 2.8%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 74 8.7% 1 12.5% 2 11.1% 3 4.9% 30 8.2% 22 10.4%
Serratia marcescens 12 1.4% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.6% 3 0.8% 4 1.9%
Staphylococcus aureus 116 13.7% 1 12.5% 1 5.6% 13 21.3% 61 16.7% 24 11.3%
Streptococcus agalactiae 25 3.0% 0 0% 0 0% 4 6.6% 15 4.1% 2 0.9%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 29 3.4% 0 0% 2 11.1% 1 1.6% 13 3.6% 5 2.4%
Streptococcus pyogenes 8 0.9% 0 0% 1 5.6% 2 3.3% 2 0.5% 0 0%
CTX-M 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 5 1.4% 2 0.9%
IMP 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 3 0.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0.3% 1 0.5%
mecA/C and MREJ 46 5.4% 1 12.5% 1 5.6% 4 6.6% 25 6.8% 12 5.7%
NDM 1 0.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0.3% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 1 0.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0.3% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 2 0.2% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.6% 1 0.3% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 4 0.5% 0 0% 1 5.6% 0 0% 1 0.3% 1 0.5%
Adenovirus 8 0.9% 1 12.5% 0 0% 1 1.6% 4 1.1% 1 0.5%
Coronavirus 31 3.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 16 4.4% 6 2.8%
Human Metapneumovirus 9 1.1% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.6% 4 1.1% 1 0.5%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 64 7.6% 3 37.5% 4 22.2% 4 6.6% 25 6.8% 11 5.2%
Influenza A 15 1.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 6 1.6% 7 3.3%
Influenza B 7 0.8% 0 0% 1 5.6% 1 1.6% 4 1.1% 0 0%
Parainfluenza Virus 18 2.1% 0 0% 0 0% 2 3.3% 10 2.7% 5 2.4%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 4 0.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0.3% 3 1.4%
Table 97: Expected Value (EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel:
109

[Table 1 on page 109]
	BAL																																		
FilmArray Result			Overall			Hospitalized (N=666)																													
			(N=846)																																
		#		EV			≤5 (N=8)						6-17 (N=18)						18-34 (N=61)						35-65 (N=366)						>65 (N=212)				
							#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex		7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			4			1.1%			2			0.9%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex		23		2.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			10			2.7%			12			5.7%		
Escherichia coli		20		2.4%		0			0%			0			0%			3			4.9%			8			2.2%			7			3.3%		
Haemophilus influenzae		82		9.7%		2			25.0%			6			33.3%			6			9.8%			38			10.4%			8			3.8%		
Klebsiella aerogenes		13		1.5%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.6%			4			1.1%			7			3.3%		
Klebsiella oxytoca		11		1.3%		1			12.5%			0			0%			2			3.3%			5			1.4%			2			0.9%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group		27		3.2%		1			12.5%			0			0%			2			3.3%			10			2.7%			9			4.2%		
Moraxella catarrhalis		29		3.4%		3			37.5%			1			5.6%			1			1.6%			10			2.7%			2			0.9%		
Proteus spp.		9		1.1%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.6%			2			0.5%			6			2.8%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa		74		8.7%		1			12.5%			2			11.1%			3			4.9%			30			8.2%			22			10.4%		
Serratia marcescens		12		1.4%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.6%			3			0.8%			4			1.9%		
Staphylococcus aureus		116		13.7%		1			12.5%			1			5.6%			13			21.3%			61			16.7%			24			11.3%		
Streptococcus agalactiae		25		3.0%		0			0%			0			0%			4			6.6%			15			4.1%			2			0.9%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae		29		3.4%		0			0%			2			11.1%			1			1.6%			13			3.6%			5			2.4%		
Streptococcus pyogenes		8		0.9%		0			0%			1			5.6%			2			3.3%			2			0.5%			0			0%		
CTX-M		7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			5			1.4%			2			0.9%		
IMP		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC		3		0.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			0.3%			1			0.5%		
mecA/C and MREJ		46		5.4%		1			12.5%			1			5.6%			4			6.6%			25			6.8%			12			5.7%		
NDM		1		0.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			0.3%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae		1		0.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			0.3%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila		2		0.2%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.6%			1			0.3%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae		4		0.5%		0			0%			1			5.6%			0			0%			1			0.3%			1			0.5%		
Adenovirus		8		0.9%		1			12.5%			0			0%			1			1.6%			4			1.1%			1			0.5%		
Coronavirus		31		3.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			16			4.4%			6			2.8%		
Human Metapneumovirus		9		1.1%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.6%			4			1.1%			1			0.5%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus		64		7.6%		3			37.5%			4			22.2%			4			6.6%			25			6.8%			11			5.2%		
Influenza A		15		1.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			6			1.6%			7			3.3%		
Influenza B		7		0.8%		0			0%			1			5.6%			1			1.6%			4			1.1%			0			0%		
Parainfluenza Virus		18		2.1%		0			0%			0			0%			2			3.3%			10			2.7%			5			2.4%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus		4		0.5%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			0.3%			3			1.4%		

--- Page 110 ---
Summary by Age Group for Sputum Specimens Collected from Hospitalized Subjects During the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)
110

--- Page 111 ---
Sputum
Overall
Hospitalized (N=682)
(N=836)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=102) 6-17 (N=64) 18-34 (N=68) 35-65 (N=252) >65 (N=196)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
28 3.3% 3 2.9% 3 4.7% 2 2.9% 4 1.6% 5 2.6%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 32 3.8% 7 6.9% 1 1.6% 1 1.5% 9 3.6% 7 3.6%
Escherichia coli 48 5.7% 3 2.9% 4 6.3% 7 10.3% 8 3.2% 16 8.2%
Haemophilus influenzae 107 12.8% 23 22.5% 7 10.9% 9 13.2% 25 9.9% 20 10.2%
Klebsiella aerogenes 12 1.4% 2 2.0% 1 1.6% 1 1.5% 3 1.2% 3 1.5%
Klebsiella oxytoca 19 2.3% 3 2.9% 1 1.6% 2 2.9% 5 2.0% 3 1.5%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 65 7.8% 8 7.8% 3 4.7% 7 10.3% 16 6.3% 20 10.2%
Moraxella catarrhalis 75 9.0% 17 16.7% 5 7.8% 4 5.9% 9 3.6% 10 5.1%
Proteus spp. 23 2.8% 0 0% 1 1.6% 3 4.4% 2 0.8% 4 2.0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 160 19.1% 9 8.8% 14 21.9% 18 26.5% 32 12.7% 33 16.8%
Serratia marcescens 53 6.3% 4 3.9% 4 6.3% 5 7.4% 6 2.4% 8 4.1%
Staphylococcus aureus 204 24.4% 23 22.5% 14 21.9% 18 26.5% 54 21.4% 43 21.9%
Streptococcus agalactiae 43 5.1% 3 2.9% 5 7.8% 4 5.9% 12 4.8% 4 2.0%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 51 6.1% 12 11.8% 2 3.1% 3 4.4% 11 4.4% 7 3.6%
Streptococcus pyogenes 11 1.3% 0 0% 4 6.3% 0 0% 2 0.8% 2 1.0%
CTX-M 9 1.1% 1 1.0% 1 1.6% 1 1.5% 1 0.4% 2 1.0%
IMP 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.5% 1 0.4% 4 2.0%
mecA/C and MREJ 107 12.8% 6 5.9% 7 10.9% 8 11.8% 32 12.7% 28 14.3%
NDM 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 2 0.2% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.5% 1 0.4% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 7 0.8% 1 1.0% 1 1.6% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Adenovirus 16 1.9% 2 2.0% 1 1.6% 0 0% 6 2.4% 3 1.5%
Coronavirus 35 4.2% 3 2.9% 0 0% 2 2.9% 7 2.8% 11 5.6%
Human Metapneumovirus 22 2.6% 4 3.9% 3 4.7% 0 0% 5 2.0% 5 2.6%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 112 13.4% 21 20.6% 7 10.9% 8 11.8% 19 7.5% 14 7.1%
Influenza A 16 1.9% 1 1.0% 3 4.7% 0 0% 1 0.4% 4 2.0%
Influenza B 14 1.7% 0 0% 1 1.6% 0 0% 5 2.0% 5 2.6%
Parainfluenza Virus 30 3.6% 4 3.9% 4 6.3% 1 1.5% 9 3.6% 7 3.6%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 48 5.7% 17 16.7% 2 3.1% 3 4.4% 6 2.4% 10 5.1%
111

[Table 1 on page 111]
	Sputum																																		
FilmArray Result			Overall			Hospitalized (N=682)																													
			(N=836)																																
		#		EV			≤5 (N=102)						6-17 (N=64)						18-34 (N=68)						35-65 (N=252)						>65 (N=196)				
							#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex		28		3.3%		3			2.9%			3			4.7%			2			2.9%			4			1.6%			5			2.6%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex		32		3.8%		7			6.9%			1			1.6%			1			1.5%			9			3.6%			7			3.6%		
Escherichia coli		48		5.7%		3			2.9%			4			6.3%			7			10.3%			8			3.2%			16			8.2%		
Haemophilus influenzae		107		12.8%		23			22.5%			7			10.9%			9			13.2%			25			9.9%			20			10.2%		
Klebsiella aerogenes		12		1.4%		2			2.0%			1			1.6%			1			1.5%			3			1.2%			3			1.5%		
Klebsiella oxytoca		19		2.3%		3			2.9%			1			1.6%			2			2.9%			5			2.0%			3			1.5%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group		65		7.8%		8			7.8%			3			4.7%			7			10.3%			16			6.3%			20			10.2%		
Moraxella catarrhalis		75		9.0%		17			16.7%			5			7.8%			4			5.9%			9			3.6%			10			5.1%		
Proteus spp.		23		2.8%		0			0%			1			1.6%			3			4.4%			2			0.8%			4			2.0%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa		160		19.1%		9			8.8%			14			21.9%			18			26.5%			32			12.7%			33			16.8%		
Serratia marcescens		53		6.3%		4			3.9%			4			6.3%			5			7.4%			6			2.4%			8			4.1%		
Staphylococcus aureus		204		24.4%		23			22.5%			14			21.9%			18			26.5%			54			21.4%			43			21.9%		
Streptococcus agalactiae		43		5.1%		3			2.9%			5			7.8%			4			5.9%			12			4.8%			4			2.0%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae		51		6.1%		12			11.8%			2			3.1%			3			4.4%			11			4.4%			7			3.6%		
Streptococcus pyogenes		11		1.3%		0			0%			4			6.3%			0			0%			2			0.8%			2			1.0%		
CTX-M		9		1.1%		1			1.0%			1			1.6%			1			1.5%			1			0.4%			2			1.0%		
IMP		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC		7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.5%			1			0.4%			4			2.0%		
mecA/C and MREJ		107		12.8%		6			5.9%			7			10.9%			8			11.8%			32			12.7%			28			14.3%		
NDM		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM		2		0.2%		0			0%			0			0%			1			1.5%			1			0.4%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila		0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae		7		0.8%		1			1.0%			1			1.6%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Adenovirus		16		1.9%		2			2.0%			1			1.6%			0			0%			6			2.4%			3			1.5%		
Coronavirus		35		4.2%		3			2.9%			0			0%			2			2.9%			7			2.8%			11			5.6%		
Human Metapneumovirus		22		2.6%		4			3.9%			3			4.7%			0			0%			5			2.0%			5			2.6%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus		112		13.4%		21			20.6%			7			10.9%			8			11.8%			19			7.5%			14			7.1%		
Influenza A		16		1.9%		1			1.0%			3			4.7%			0			0%			1			0.4%			4			2.0%		
Influenza B		14		1.7%		0			0%			1			1.6%			0			0%			5			2.0%			5			2.6%		
Parainfluenza Virus		30		3.6%		4			3.9%			4			6.3%			1			1.5%			9			3.6%			7			3.6%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus		48		5.7%		17			16.7%			2			3.1%			3			4.4%			6			2.4%			10			5.1%		

--- Page 112 ---
Table 98: Expected Value (EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel):
Summary by Age Group for BAL Specimens Collected from Outpatient Subjects During the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)
112

--- Page 113 ---
BAL
Overall
Hospitalized (N=159)
(N=846)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=15) 6-17 (N=8) 18-34 (N=5) 35-65 (N=93) >65 (N=38)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 23 2.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Escherichia coli 20 2.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Haemophilus influenzae 82 9.7% 4 26.7% 1 12.5% 2 40.0% 8 8.6% 2 5.3%
Klebsiella aerogenes 13 1.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 2.6%
Klebsiella oxytoca 11 1.3% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.1% 0 0%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 27 3.2% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2.2% 1 2.6%
Moraxella catarrhalis 29 3.4% 4 26.7% 1 12.5% 0 0% 4 4.3% 2 5.3%
Proteus spp. 9 1.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 74 8.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 8 8.6% 5 13.2%
Serratia marcescens 12 1.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2.2% 0 0%
Staphylococcus aureus 116 13.7% 1 6.7% 0 0% 1 20.0% 6 6.5% 2 5.3%
Streptococcus agalactiae 25 3.0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 20.0% 2 2.2% 0 0%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 29 3.4% 2 13.3% 1 12.5% 1 20.0% 3 3.2% 1 2.6%
Streptococcus pyogenes 8 0.9% 1 6.7% 1 12.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
CTX-M 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
IMP 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 3 0.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
mecA/C and MREJ 46 5.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.1% 0 0%
NDM 1 0.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 1 0.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 2 0.2% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 4 0.5% 1 6.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Adenovirus 8 0.9% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.1% 0 0%
Coronavirus 31 3.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 7 7.5% 2 5.3%
Human Metapneumovirus 9 1.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2.2% 0 0%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 64 7.6% 3 20.0% 4 50.0% 0 0% 6 6.5% 4 10.5%
Influenza A 15 1.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1.1% 1 2.6%
Influenza B 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Parainfluenza Virus 18 2.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 2.6%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 4 0.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Table 99: Expected Value (EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel:
113

[Table 1 on page 113]
BAL																																		
FilmArray Result		Overall			Hospitalized (N=159)																													
		(N=846)																																
	#		EV			≤5 (N=15)						6-17 (N=8)						18-34 (N=5)						35-65 (N=93)						>65 (N=38)				
						#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex	23		2.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Escherichia coli	20		2.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Haemophilus influenzae	82		9.7%		4			26.7%			1			12.5%			2			40.0%			8			8.6%			2			5.3%		
Klebsiella aerogenes	13		1.5%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			2.6%		
Klebsiella oxytoca	11		1.3%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			1.1%			0			0%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	27		3.2%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			2			2.2%			1			2.6%		
Moraxella catarrhalis	29		3.4%		4			26.7%			1			12.5%			0			0%			4			4.3%			2			5.3%		
Proteus spp.	9		1.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	74		8.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			8			8.6%			5			13.2%		
Serratia marcescens	12		1.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			2			2.2%			0			0%		
Staphylococcus aureus	116		13.7%		1			6.7%			0			0%			1			20.0%			6			6.5%			2			5.3%		
Streptococcus agalactiae	25		3.0%		0			0%			0			0%			1			20.0%			2			2.2%			0			0%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae	29		3.4%		2			13.3%			1			12.5%			1			20.0%			3			3.2%			1			2.6%		
Streptococcus pyogenes	8		0.9%		1			6.7%			1			12.5%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
CTX-M	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
IMP	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC	3		0.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
mecA/C and MREJ	46		5.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			1.1%			0			0%		
NDM	1		0.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae	1		0.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila	2		0.2%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae	4		0.5%		1			6.7%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Adenovirus	8		0.9%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			1.1%			0			0%		
Coronavirus	31		3.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			7			7.5%			2			5.3%		
Human Metapneumovirus	9		1.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			2			2.2%			0			0%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus	64		7.6%		3			20.0%			4			50.0%			0			0%			6			6.5%			4			10.5%		
Influenza A	15		1.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			1.1%			1			2.6%		
Influenza B	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Parainfluenza Virus	18		2.1%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			2.6%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	4		0.5%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		

--- Page 114 ---
Summary by Age Group for Sputum Specimens Collected from Outpatient Subjects During the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel
Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)
Sputum
Overall
Hospitalized (N=73)
(N=836)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=13) 6-17 (N=21) 18-34 (N=7) 35-65 (N=18) >65 (N=14)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
28 3.3% 1 7.7% 4 19.0% 1 14.3% 0 0% 0 0%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 32 3.8% 3 23.1% 1 4.8% 0 0% 0 0% 1 7.1%
Escherichia coli 48 5.7% 0 0% 1 4.8% 1 14.3% 0 0% 0 0%
Haemophilus influenzae 107 12.8% 3 23.1% 4 19.0% 0 0% 3 16.7% 3 21.4%
Klebsiella aerogenes 12 1.4% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Klebsiella oxytoca 19 2.3% 3 23.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 65 7.8% 0 0% 2 9.5% 0 0% 2 11.1% 2 14.3%
Moraxella catarrhalis 75 9.0% 6 46.2% 7 33.3% 2 28.6% 1 5.6% 0 0%
Proteus spp. 23 2.8% 1 7.7% 3 14.3% 0 0% 1 5.6% 0 0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 160 19.1% 3 23.1% 13 61.9% 4 57.1% 3 16.7% 5 35.7%
Serratia marcescens 53 6.3% 1 7.7% 7 33.3% 0 0% 2 11.1% 0 0%
Staphylococcus aureus 204 24.4% 7 53.8% 14 66.7% 2 28.6% 1 5.6% 2 14.3%
Streptococcus agalactiae 43 5.1% 1 7.7% 3 14.3% 1 14.3% 1 5.6% 1 7.1%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 51 6.1% 1 7.7% 2 9.5% 1 14.3% 0 0% 0 0%
Streptococcus pyogenes 11 1.3% 0 0% 1 4.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
CTX-M 9 1.1% 0 0% 1 4.8% 1 14.3% 0 0% 0 0%
IMP 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 5.6% 0 0%
mecA/C and MREJ 107 12.8% 2 15.4% 10 47.6% 1 14.3% 0 0% 1 7.1%
NDM 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 2 0.2% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Adenovirus 16 1.9% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 7.1%
Coronavirus 35 4.2% 1 7.7% 1 4.8% 4 57.1% 1 5.6% 1 7.1%
Human Metapneumovirus 22 2.6% 0 0% 0 0% 1 14.3% 0 0% 0 0%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 112 13.4% 5 38.5% 5 23.8% 2 28.6% 2 11.1% 4 28.6%
Influenza A 16 1.9% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 11.1% 1 7.1%
Influenza B 14 1.7% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 7.1%
Parainfluenza Virus 30 3.6% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 48 5.7% 1 7.7% 0 0% 0 0% 1 5.6% 0 0%
114

[Table 1 on page 114]
Sputum																																		
FilmArray Result		Overall			Hospitalized (N=73)																													
		(N=836)																																
	#		EV			≤5 (N=13)						6-17 (N=21)						18-34 (N=7)						35-65 (N=18)						>65 (N=14)				
						#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	28		3.3%		1			7.7%			4			19.0%			1			14.3%			0			0%			0			0%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex	32		3.8%		3			23.1%			1			4.8%			0			0%			0			0%			1			7.1%		
Escherichia coli	48		5.7%		0			0%			1			4.8%			1			14.3%			0			0%			0			0%		
Haemophilus influenzae	107		12.8%		3			23.1%			4			19.0%			0			0%			3			16.7%			3			21.4%		
Klebsiella aerogenes	12		1.4%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Klebsiella oxytoca	19		2.3%		3			23.1%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	65		7.8%		0			0%			2			9.5%			0			0%			2			11.1%			2			14.3%		
Moraxella catarrhalis	75		9.0%		6			46.2%			7			33.3%			2			28.6%			1			5.6%			0			0%		
Proteus spp.	23		2.8%		1			7.7%			3			14.3%			0			0%			1			5.6%			0			0%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	160		19.1%		3			23.1%			13			61.9%			4			57.1%			3			16.7%			5			35.7%		
Serratia marcescens	53		6.3%		1			7.7%			7			33.3%			0			0%			2			11.1%			0			0%		
Staphylococcus aureus	204		24.4%		7			53.8%			14			66.7%			2			28.6%			1			5.6%			2			14.3%		
Streptococcus agalactiae	43		5.1%		1			7.7%			3			14.3%			1			14.3%			1			5.6%			1			7.1%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae	51		6.1%		1			7.7%			2			9.5%			1			14.3%			0			0%			0			0%		
Streptococcus pyogenes	11		1.3%		0			0%			1			4.8%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
CTX-M	9		1.1%		0			0%			1			4.8%			1			14.3%			0			0%			0			0%		
IMP	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			5.6%			0			0%		
mecA/C and MREJ	107		12.8%		2			15.4%			10			47.6%			1			14.3%			0			0%			1			7.1%		
NDM	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM	2		0.2%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Adenovirus	16		1.9%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			7.1%		
Coronavirus	35		4.2%		1			7.7%			1			4.8%			4			57.1%			1			5.6%			1			7.1%		
Human Metapneumovirus	22		2.6%		0			0%			0			0%			1			14.3%			0			0%			0			0%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus	112		13.4%		5			38.5%			5			23.8%			2			28.6%			2			11.1%			4			28.6%		
Influenza A	16		1.9%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			2			11.1%			1			7.1%		
Influenza B	14		1.7%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			7.1%		
Parainfluenza Virus	30		3.6%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	48		5.7%		1			7.7%			0			0%			0			0%			1			5.6%			0			0%		

--- Page 115 ---
Table 100: Expected Value(EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel:
Summary by Age Group for BAL Specimens Collected from Emergency Department Subjects During the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)
115

--- Page 116 ---
BAL
Overall
Hospitalized (N=21)
(N=846)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=0) 6-17 (N=1) 18-34 (N=4) 35-65 (N=11) >65 (N=5)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
7 0.8% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 23 2.7% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Escherichia coli 20 2.4% 0 - 0 0% 1 25.0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Haemophilus influenzae 82 9.7% 0 - 0 0% 1 25.0% 2 18.2% 1 20.0%
Klebsiella aerogenes 13 1.5% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Klebsiella oxytoca 11 1.3% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 27 3.2% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Moraxella catarrhalis 29 3.4% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Proteus spp. 9 1.1% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 74 8.7% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 2 18.2% 1 20.0%
Serratia marcescens 12 1.4% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 20.0%
Staphylococcus aureus 116 13.7% 0 - 1 100% 2 50.0% 3 27.3% 0 0%
Streptococcus agalactiae 25 3.0% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 29 3.4% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Streptococcus pyogenes 8 0.9% 0 - 0 0% 1 25.0% 0 0% 0 0%
CTX-M 7 0.8% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
IMP 0 0% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 3 0.4% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
mecA/C and MREJ 46 5.4% 0 - 0 0% 1 25.0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
NDM 1 0.1% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 0 0% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 1 0.1% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 2 0.2% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 4 0.5% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Adenovirus 8 0.9% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Coronavirus 31 3.7% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Human Metapneumovirus 9 1.1% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 64 7.6% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Influenza A 15 1.8% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Influenza B 7 0.8% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 0 0%
Parainfluenza Virus 18 2.1% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 4 0.5% 0 - 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
116

[Table 1 on page 116]
BAL																																		
FilmArray Result		Overall			Hospitalized (N=21)																													
		(N=846)																																
	#		EV			≤5 (N=0)						6-17 (N=1)						18-34 (N=4)						35-65 (N=11)						>65 (N=5)				
						#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	7		0.8%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex	23		2.7%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Escherichia coli	20		2.4%		0			-			0			0%			1			25.0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Haemophilus influenzae	82		9.7%		0			-			0			0%			1			25.0%			2			18.2%			1			20.0%		
Klebsiella aerogenes	13		1.5%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Klebsiella oxytoca	11		1.3%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	27		3.2%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Moraxella catarrhalis	29		3.4%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Proteus spp.	9		1.1%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	74		8.7%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			2			18.2%			1			20.0%		
Serratia marcescens	12		1.4%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			1			20.0%		
Staphylococcus aureus	116		13.7%		0			-			1			100%			2			50.0%			3			27.3%			0			0%		
Streptococcus agalactiae	25		3.0%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae	29		3.4%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Streptococcus pyogenes	8		0.9%		0			-			0			0%			1			25.0%			0			0%			0			0%		
CTX-M	7		0.8%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
IMP	0		0%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC	3		0.4%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
mecA/C and MREJ	46		5.4%		0			-			0			0%			1			25.0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
NDM	1		0.1%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like	0		0%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM	0		0%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae	1		0.1%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila	2		0.2%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae	4		0.5%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Adenovirus	8		0.9%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Coronavirus	31		3.7%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Human Metapneumovirus	9		1.1%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus	64		7.6%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Influenza A	15		1.8%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Influenza B	7		0.8%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			0			0%		
Parainfluenza Virus	18		2.1%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	4		0.5%		0			-			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		

--- Page 117 ---
Table 101: Expected Value(EV) as Determined by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel:
Summary by Age Group for Sputum Specimens Collected from Emergency Department Subjects During the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel Prospective Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 to July 2017)

--- Page 118 ---
Sputum
Overall
Hospitalized (N=81)
(N=836)
FilmArray Result
≤5 (N=23) 6-17 (N=22) 18-34 (N=11) 35-65 (N=14) >65 (N=11)
# EV
# EV # EV # EV # EV # EV
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
28 3.3% 2 8.7% 1 4.5% 1 9.1% 0 0.0% 1 9.1%
complex
Enterobacter cloacae complex 32 3.8% 1 4.3% 1 4.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Escherichia coli 48 5.7% 0 0% 5 22.7% 1 9.1% 1 7.1% 1 9.1%
Haemophilus influenzae 107 12.8% 2 8.7% 4 18.2% 2 18.2% 1 7.1% 1 9.1%
Klebsiella aerogenes 12 1.4% 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1% 1 7.1% 0 0%
Klebsiella oxytoca 19 2.3% 1 4.3% 0 0% 0 0% 1 7.1% 0 0%
Klebsiella pneumoniae group 65 7.8% 2 8.7% 2 9.1% 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1%
Moraxella catarrhalis 75 9.0% 8 34.8% 5 22.7% 1 9.1% 0 0% 0 0%
Proteus spp. 23 2.8% 1 4.3% 4 18.2% 1 9.1% 1 7.1% 1 9.1%
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 160 19.1% 9 39.1% 8 36.4% 7 63.6% 1 7.1% 1 9.1%
Serratia marcescens 53 6.3% 7 30.4% 5 22.7% 3 27.3% 0 0% 1 9.1%
Staphylococcus aureus 204 24.4% 11 47.8% 10 45.5% 0 0% 2 14.3% 3 27.3%
Streptococcus agalactiae 43 5.1% 0 0% 3 13.6% 2 18.2% 1 7.1% 2 18.2%
Streptococcus pneumoniae 51 6.1% 1 4.3% 7 31.8% 1 9.1% 2 14.3% 1 9.1%
Streptococcus pyogenes 11 1.3% 0 0% 2 9.1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
CTX-M 9 1.1% 0 0% 1 4.5% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
IMP 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
KPC 7 0.8% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
mecA/C and MREJ 107 12.8% 5 21.7% 4 18.2% 0 0% 0 0% 3 27.3%
NDM 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
OXA-48-like 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
VIM 2 0.2% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Chlamydia pneumoniae 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Legionella pneumophila 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0%
Mycoplasma pneumoniae 7 0.8% 0 0% 3 13.6% 1 9.1% 0 0% 1 9.1%
Adenovirus 16 1.9% 1 4.3% 1 4.5% 1 9.1% 0 0% 0 0%
Coronavirus 35 4.2% 1 4.3% 2 9.1% 1 9.1% 0 0% 0 0%
Human Metapneumovirus 22 2.6% 1 4.3% 0 0% 1 9.1% 1 7.1% 1 9.1%
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus 112 13.4% 12 52.2% 7 31.8% 3 27.3% 1 7.1% 2 18.2%
Influenza A 16 1.9% 0 0% 1 4.5% 0 0% 2 14.3% 1 9.1%
Influenza B 14 1.7% 0 0% 1 4.5% 0 0% 0 0% 1 9.1%
Parainfluenza Virus 30 3.6% 0 0% 3 13.6% 0 0% 2 14.3% 0 0%
Respiratory Syncytial Virus 48 5.7% 3 13.0% 3 13.6% 1 9.1% 1 7.1% 0 0%
In addition, observed multiple detections in each specimen type (as determined by FilmArray Pneumonia
118

[Table 1 on page 118]
Sputum																																		
FilmArray Result		Overall			Hospitalized (N=81)																													
		(N=836)																																
	#		EV			≤5 (N=23)						6-17 (N=22)						18-34 (N=11)						35-65 (N=14)						>65 (N=11)				
						#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV			#			EV	
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii
complex	28		3.3%		2			8.7%			1			4.5%			1			9.1%			0			0.0%			1			9.1%		
Enterobacter cloacae complex	32		3.8%		1			4.3%			1			4.5%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Escherichia coli	48		5.7%		0			0%			5			22.7%			1			9.1%			1			7.1%			1			9.1%		
Haemophilus influenzae	107		12.8%		2			8.7%			4			18.2%			2			18.2%			1			7.1%			1			9.1%		
Klebsiella aerogenes	12		1.4%		0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%			1			7.1%			0			0%		
Klebsiella oxytoca	19		2.3%		1			4.3%			0			0%			0			0%			1			7.1%			0			0%		
Klebsiella pneumoniae group	65		7.8%		2			8.7%			2			9.1%			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%		
Moraxella catarrhalis	75		9.0%		8			34.8%			5			22.7%			1			9.1%			0			0%			0			0%		
Proteus spp.	23		2.8%		1			4.3%			4			18.2%			1			9.1%			1			7.1%			1			9.1%		
Pseudomonas aeruginosa	160		19.1%		9			39.1%			8			36.4%			7			63.6%			1			7.1%			1			9.1%		
Serratia marcescens	53		6.3%		7			30.4%			5			22.7%			3			27.3%			0			0%			1			9.1%		
Staphylococcus aureus	204		24.4%		11			47.8%			10			45.5%			0			0%			2			14.3%			3			27.3%		
Streptococcus agalactiae	43		5.1%		0			0%			3			13.6%			2			18.2%			1			7.1%			2			18.2%		
Streptococcus pneumoniae	51		6.1%		1			4.3%			7			31.8%			1			9.1%			2			14.3%			1			9.1%		
Streptococcus pyogenes	11		1.3%		0			0%			2			9.1%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
CTX-M	9		1.1%		0			0%			1			4.5%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
IMP	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
KPC	7		0.8%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
mecA/C and MREJ	107		12.8%		5			21.7%			4			18.2%			0			0%			0			0%			3			27.3%		
NDM	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
OXA-48-like	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
VIM	2		0.2%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Chlamydia pneumoniae	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Legionella pneumophila	0		0%		0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%			0			0%		
Mycoplasma pneumoniae	7		0.8%		0			0%			3			13.6%			1			9.1%			0			0%			1			9.1%		
Adenovirus	16		1.9%		1			4.3%			1			4.5%			1			9.1%			0			0%			0			0%		
Coronavirus	35		4.2%		1			4.3%			2			9.1%			1			9.1%			0			0%			0			0%		
Human Metapneumovirus	22		2.6%		1			4.3%			0			0%			1			9.1%			1			7.1%			1			9.1%		
Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus	112		13.4%		12			52.2%			7			31.8%			3			27.3%			1			7.1%			2			18.2%		
Influenza A	16		1.9%		0			0%			1			4.5%			0			0%			2			14.3%			1			9.1%		
Influenza B	14		1.7%		0			0%			1			4.5%			0			0%			0			0%			1			9.1%		
Parainfluenza Virus	30		3.6%		0			0%			3			13.6%			0			0%			2			14.3%			0			0%		
Respiratory Syncytial Virus	48		5.7%		3			13.0%			3			13.6%			1			9.1%			1			7.1%			0			0%		

--- Page 119 ---
Panel) during the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel prospective clinical evaluation is presented in Table 102. The
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel detected at least one analyte in a total of 413 BAL specimens (48.8% positivity
rate; 413/846) and 602 sputum specimens (72.0% positivity rate; 602/836). Two or more analytes were
detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel in 37.8% of positive BAL specimens (156/413; 18.4% of all
tested BAL specimens, 156/846) and 56.5% of positive sputum specimens (340/602; 40.7% of all tested
sputum specimens, 340/836). Up to six analytes were detected in both specimen types.
Table 102: Expected Values Multiple Detections as Determined by the FilmArray Pneumonia
Panel) for the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 – July 2017)
Expected Value (as Determined by Expected Value (as Determined by
Testing of 846 Prospective BAL Testing of 836 Prospective Sputum
Specimens) Specimens)
FilmArray Result
Number
% of Total Number Detected % of Total
Detected
(% of Positives) and Reported (% of Positives)
and Reported
Detected (at least one 48.8% 72.0%
413 602
result) (100%) (100%)
30.4% 31.3%
One analyte result 257 262
(62.2%) (43.5%)
12.4% 21.3%
Two analyte results 105 178
(25.4%) (29.6%)
3.3% 10.2%
Three analyte results 28 85
(6.8%) (14.1%)
2.4% 5.0%
Four analyte results 20 42
(4.8%) (7.0%)
0.2% 2.8%
Five analyte results 2 23
(0.5%) (3.8%)
0.1% 1.4%
Six or more analyte results 1 12
(0.2%) (2.0%)
Detection profiles, including co-detections with multiple bacteria, multiple viruses, or bacteria and virus
combinations, are shown in Figure 2. Viruses and bacteria were observed together in 6% of BAL and 21%
of sputum specimens. The rate of multiple bacteria detections in single specimens was higher in sputum
specimens (19%) compared to BAL (12%). Multiple viruses were observed in both specimen types at a low
rate (1%).
Figure 2: Detection profiles (as determined by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel) for BAL and sputum
specimens (AMR genes excluded)
119

[Table 1 on page 119]
FilmArray Result		Expected Value (as Determined by					Expected Value (as Determined by		
		Testing of 846 Prospective BAL					Testing of 836 Prospective Sputum		
		Specimens)					Specimens)		
		Number		% of Total
(% of Positives)		Number Detected
and Reported		% of Total
(% of Positives)	
		Detected							
		and Reported							
Detected (at least one
result)	413			48.8%
(100%)		602		72.0%
(100%)	
One analyte result	257			30.4%
(62.2%)		262		31.3%
(43.5%)	
Two analyte results	105			12.4%
(25.4%)		178		21.3%
(29.6%)	
Three analyte results	28			3.3%
(6.8%)		85		10.2%
(14.1%)	
Four analyte results	20			2.4%
(4.8%)		42		5.0%
(7.0%)	
Five analyte results	2			0.2%
(0.5%)		23		2.8%
(3.8%)	
Six or more analyte results	1			0.1%
(0.2%)		12		1.4%
(2.0%)	

[Table 2 on page 119]
% of Total
(% of Positives)

[Table 3 on page 119]
Number Detected
and Reported

[Table 4 on page 119]
% of Total
(% of Positives)

--- Page 120 ---
The FilmArray Pneumonia Panel identified 119 different co-detection combinations in 156 BAL specimens,
100 of which were unique combinations (Table 103 and Table 104). False positive results (as compared to
SOC) were observed in 104 of 156 BAL specimens with co-detections. Similarly, 243 different co-detection
combinations were identified in 340 sputum specimens, 194 of which were unique combinations. False
positive results (as compared to SOC) were observed in 239 of 340 sputum specimens with co-detections.
Table 103: Co-detections by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel with performance compared to SOC for BAL specimens
BAL
Number of Co-
Organism Co-Detections Number of Co- Detection Total Specimens Total Specimens False Positive
(includes viruses and Detection Combinations with Co- with False Analyte(s)/ Total
bacteria) Combinations Observed in only Detection Positive(s) Analytes
One Specimen
Two analyte results 69 51 105 64 78/210
Three analyte results 27 26 28 20 34/84
Four analyte results 20 20 20 17 44/80
Five analyte results 2 2 2 2 6/10
Six analyte results 0 - 0 - -
Seven analyte results 1 1 1 1 2/7
All co-detections 119 100 156 104 168/391
120

[Table 1 on page 120]
	BAL								
Organism Co-Detections
(includes viruses and
bacteria)		Number of Co-
Detection
Combinations		Number of Co-		Total Specimens
with Co-
Detection	Total Specimens
with False
Positive(s)	False Positive
Analyte(s)/ Total
Analytes	
				Detection					
				Combinations					
				Observed in only					
				One Specimen					
Two analyte results		69	51			105	64	78/210	
Three analyte results		27	26			28	20	34/84	
Four analyte results		20	20			20	17	44/80	
Five analyte results		2	2			2	2	6/10	
Six analyte results		0	-			0	-	-	
Seven analyte results		1	1			1	1	2/7	
All co-detections		119	100			156	104	168/391	

[Table 2 on page 120]
Organism Co-Detections
(includes viruses and
bacteria)

[Table 3 on page 120]
Number of Co-
Detection
Combinations

[Table 4 on page 120]
Total Specimens
with Co-
Detection

[Table 5 on page 120]
Total Specimens
with False
Positive(s)

[Table 6 on page 120]
False Positive
Analyte(s)/ Total
Analytes

--- Page 121 ---
Table 104: Co-detections by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel with performance compared to SOC for sputum
specimens
Sputum
Number of Co-
Organism Co-Detections Number of Co- Detection Total Specimens Total Specimens False Positive
(includes viruses and Detection Combinations with Co- with False Analyte(s)/ Total
bacteria) Combinations Observed in only Detection Positive(s) Analytes
One Specimen
Two analyte results 91 52 178 104 128/356
Three analyte results 76 67 85 68 109/255
Four analyte results 41 40 42 34 79/168
Five analyte results 23 23 23 21 62/115
Six analyte results 9 9 9 9 31/54
Seven analyte results 3 3 3 3 14/21
All co-detections 243 194 340 239 423/969
SOC testing reported Normal Oral Flora (NOF) and no specific organism for 79/322 (24.5%) BAL and
141/510 (27.6%) sputum specimens for which the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel reported at least one non-
atypical bacteria (Table 105 and Table 106).
Table 105: Non-Atypical Bacterial Detections (as compared to SOC) in BAL Specimens for the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 – July 2017)
BAL
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result Positive SOC Negative SOC Culture SOC Culture
(n=846) Culture No Growth NOF Reported Not Performed
195/322
Detected (n=322) 43/322 (13.4%) 79/322 (24.5%) 5/322 (1.6%)
(60.6%)
Not Detected (n=524) 11/524 (2.1%) 268/524 (51.1%) 242/524 (46.2%) 3/524 (0.6%)
Table 106: Non-Atypical Bacterial Detections (as compared to SOC) in Sputum Specimens for the FilmArray
Pneumonia Panel Clinical Evaluation (October 2016 – July 2017)
Sputum
Negative SOC Culture
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result Positive SOC SOC Culture
NOF
(n=836) Culture No Growth Not Performed
Reported
331/510
Detected (n=510) 26/510 (5.1%) 141/510 (27.6%) 12/510 (2.4%)
(64.9%)
Not Detected (n=326) 11/326 (3.4%) 110/326 (33.7%) 201/326 (61.7%) 4/326 (1.2%)
121

[Table 1 on page 121]
	Sputum						
Organism Co-Detections
(includes viruses and
bacteria)		Number of Co-
Detection
Combinations	Number of Co-
Detection
Combinations
Observed in only
One Specimen		Total Specimens
with Co-
Detection	Total Specimens
with False
Positive(s)	False Positive
Analyte(s)/ Total
Analytes
Two analyte results		91	52		178	104	128/356
Three analyte results		76	67		85	68	109/255
Four analyte results		41	40		42	34	79/168
Five analyte results		23	23		23	21	62/115
Six analyte results		9	9		9	9	31/54
Seven analyte results		3	3		3	3	14/21
All co-detections		243	194		340	239	423/969

[Table 2 on page 121]
Organism Co-Detections
(includes viruses and
bacteria)

[Table 3 on page 121]
Total Specimens
with False
Positive(s)

[Table 4 on page 121]
BAL						
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result
(n=846)	Positive SOC
Culture		Negative SOC Culture			SOC Culture
Not Performed
		No Growth		NOF Reported		
Detected (n=322)	195/322
(60.6%)	43/322 (13.4%)		79/322 (24.5%)		5/322 (1.6%)
Not Detected (n=524)	11/524 (2.1%)	268/524 (51.1%)		242/524 (46.2%)		3/524 (0.6%)

[Table 5 on page 121]
Sputum						
FilmArray Pneumonia Panel Result
(n=836)	Positive SOC
Culture		Negative SOC Culture			SOC Culture
Not Performed
		No Growth		NOF
Reported		
Detected (n=510)	331/510
(64.9%)	26/510 (5.1%)		141/510 (27.6%)		12/510 (2.4%)
Not Detected (n=326)	11/326 (3.4%)	110/326 (33.7%)		201/326 (61.7%)		4/326 (1.2%)

[Table 6 on page 121]
Positive SOC
Culture

[Table 7 on page 121]
SOC Culture
Not Performed

--- Page 122 ---
Two or more bacteria were detected by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel in 42.8% (356/832) of positive
specimens; 34.2% (110/322) of positive BAL specimens and 48.2% (246/510) of positive sputum
specimens. The resulting co-detection combinations, as reported by the FilmArray Pneumonia Panel, are
presented in Table 107 and Table 108. These tables also indicate the number of specimens with false
positive results for each co-detection combination, as well as the specific analytes that were discrepant.
Table 107: Co-detections of Non-atypical Bacteria Detected by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and Compared to
qRefCxDistinct Co-Detection Combinations
#
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
H. influenzae, K.
M. P. S. oxytoca, M.
H. influenzae K. oxytoca S. aureus - 1 1
catarrhalis aeruginosa agalactiae catarrhalis, S. aureus,
S. agalactiae
K. P. mecA/C &
ACB complex Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 1 ACB complex
aerogenes aeruginosa MREJ
K.
E. cloacae S. ACB complex, S.
ACB complex pneumoniae - 1 1
complex agalactiae agalactiae
group
ACB complex, H.
H. P.
ACB complex E. coli - 1 1 influenzae, P.
influenzae aeruginosa
aeruginosa
K. E. cloacae complex, H.
E. cloacae H.
K. oxytoca pneumoniae - 1 1 influenzae, K. oxytoca,
complex influenzae
group K. pneumoniae group
K.
E. cloacae E. cloacae complex, K.
K. oxytoca pneumoniae Proteus spp. - 1 1
complex oxytoca
group
E. coli, H. influenzae,
H. K.
E. coli S. aureus - 1 1 K. aerogenes, S.
influenzae aerogenes
aureus
H. S. E. coli, H. influenzae,
E. coli S. aureus - 1 1
influenzae agalactiae S. agalactiae
P. S. K. oxytoca, S.
E. coli K. oxytoca - 1 1
aeruginosa marcescens marcescens
K.
M. S. H. influenzae, M.
H. influenzae pneumoniae - 1 1
catarrhalis marcescens catarrhalis
group
H. influenzae, Proteus
Proteus
H. influenzae S. aureus S. pyogenes - 1 1 spp., S. aureus, S.
spp.
pyogenes
122

[Table 1 on page 122]
								#	
							Total		
								Specimens	False Positive
							Specimens		
								with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
								Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	Gene(s)	Detection		
								Co-	Gene(s)a
							Combination		
								Detections	
									
H. influenzae	K. oxytoca	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae	-	1	1	H. influenzae, K.
oxytoca, M.
catarrhalis, S. aureus,
S. agalactiae
ACB complex	K.
aerogenes	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus		mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	ACB complex
ACB complex	E. cloacae
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	S.
agalactiae			-	1	1	ACB complex, S.
agalactiae
ACB complex	E. coli	H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa			-	1	1	ACB complex, H.
influenzae, P.
aeruginosa
E. cloacae
complex	H.
influenzae	K. oxytoca	K.
pneumoniae
group			-	1	1	E. cloacae complex, H.
influenzae, K. oxytoca,
K. pneumoniae group
E. cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca	K.
pneumoniae
group	Proteus spp.			-	1	1	E. cloacae complex, K.
oxytoca
E. coli	H.
influenzae	K.
aerogenes	S. aureus			-	1	1	E. coli, H. influenzae,
K. aerogenes, S.
aureus
E. coli	H.
influenzae	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae			-	1	1	E. coli, H. influenzae,
S. agalactiae
E. coli	K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens			-	1	1	K. oxytoca, S.
marcescens
H. influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis	S.
marcescens			-	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis
H. influenzae	Proteus
spp.	S. aureus	S. pyogenes			-	1	1	H. influenzae, Proteus
spp., S. aureus, S.
pyogenes

--- Page 123 ---
#
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
H. influenzae, S.
S. S.
H. influenzae S. aureus - 1 1 aureus, S. agalactiae,
agalactiae pneumoniae
S. pneumoniae
P. S.
K. oxytoca S. aureus - 1 1 S. marcescens
aeruginosa marcescens
K. S. aureus, S.
S. S.
pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1 agalactiae, S.
agalactiae pneumoniae
group pneumoniae
ACB complex, H.
H. S.
ACB complex - 1 1 influenzae, S.
influenzae pneumoniae
pneumoniae
E. cloacae H.
K. oxytoca - 1 1 H. influenzae
complex influenzae
E. cloacae H. S. H. influenzae, S.
- 1 1
complex influenzae pneumoniae pneumoniae
H. S.
E. coli - 1 1 E. coli, S. pneumoniae
influenzae pneumoniae
K.
S. K. pneumoniae group,
pneumoniae - 1 1
E. coli pneumoniae S. pneumoniae
group
K. H. influenzae, K.
M.
H. influenzae pneumoniae - 1 1 pneumoniae
catarrhalis
group group, M. catarrhalis
K.
P.
H. influenzae pneumoniae - 1 1 H. influenzae
aeruginosa
group
H. influenzae (1), M.
M.
H. influenzae S. aureus - 2 2 catarrhalis
catarrhalis
(2)
H. influenzae (2), M.
M. S.
H. influenzae - 2 2 catarrhalis
catarrhalis pneumoniae
(2), S. pneumoniae (2)
S. H. influenzae, S.
H. influenzae S. aureus - 1 1
agalactiae aureus, S. agalactiae
mecA/C & H. influenzae, S.
H. influenzae S. aureus S. pyogenes 1 1
MREJ aureus, S. pyogenes
P.
K. aerogenes S. aureus - 1 1 K. aerogenes, S. aureus
aeruginosa
K.
P. S.
pneumoniae - 1 1 S. marcescens
aeruginosa marcescens
group
123

[Table 1 on page 123]
								#	
							Total		
								Specimens	False Positive
							Specimens		
								with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
								Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	Gene(s)	Detection		
								Co-	Gene(s)a
							Combination		
								Detections	
									
H. influenzae	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae			-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus, S. agalactiae,
S. pneumoniae
K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus			-	1	1	S. marcescens
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae			-	1	1	S. aureus, S.
agalactiae, S.
pneumoniae
ACB complex	H.
influenzae	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	ACB complex, H.
influenzae, S.
pneumoniae
E. cloacae
complex	H.
influenzae	K. oxytoca				-	1	1	H. influenzae
E. cloacae
complex	H.
influenzae	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
pneumoniae
E. coli	H.
influenzae	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	E. coli, S. pneumoniae
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group,
S. pneumoniae
H. influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis				-	1	1	H. influenzae, K.
pneumoniae
group, M. catarrhalis
H. influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa				-	1	1	H. influenzae
H. influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus				-	2	2	H. influenzae (1), M.
catarrhalis
(2)
H. influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S.
pneumoniae				-	2	2	H. influenzae (2), M.
catarrhalis
(2), S. pneumoniae (2)
H. influenzae	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae				-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus, S. agalactiae
H. influenzae	S. aureus	S. pyogenes				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus, S. pyogenes
K. aerogenes	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				-	1	1	K. aerogenes, S. aureus
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens				-	1	1	S. marcescens

--- Page 124 ---
#
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
Proteus spp., P.
P. S.
Proteus spp. KPC 1 1 aeruginosa, S.
aeruginosa agalactiae
agalactiae
S.
P. aeruginosa S. aureus - 1 1 P. aeruginosa
marcescens
S. S.
P. aeruginosa - 1 0 -
marcescens pneumoniae
S. S. S. marcescens, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
marcescens agalactiae agalactiae
S. aureus, S.
S. S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 agalactiae, S.
agalactiae pneumoniae MREJ
pneumoniae
S. S. S. agalactiae, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
agalactiae pneumoniae pneumoniae
S.
S. aureus S. pyogenes - 1 1 S. pneumoniae
pneumoniae
K. ACB complex, K.
ACB complex pneumoniae KPC 1 pneumoniae
group group, [KPC]
P. ACB complex, P.
ACB complex - 1 1
aeruginosa aeruginosa
E. cloacae K.
- 1 1 K. aerogenes
complex aerogenes
E. cloacae
K. oxytoca CTX-Mb 1 1 K. oxytoca
complex
K. E. cloacae complex (2),
E. cloacae
pneumoniae - K. pneumoniae group
complex
group (2)
E. cloacae P.
KPC 1 0 -
complex aeruginosa
E. cloacae P. E. cloacae complex, P.
- 1 1
complex aeruginosa aeruginosa
E. cloacae E. cloacae complex,
S. aureus NDM 1 1
complex [NDM]
E. cloacae E. cloacae complex, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
complex aureus
E. cloacae S. E. cloacae complex, S.
- 1 1
complex pneumoniae pneumoniae
K.
E. coli - 1 1 E. coli
aerogenes
K. - 1 0 -
124

[Table 1 on page 124]
								#	
							Total		
								Specimens	False Positive
							Specimens		
								with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
								Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	Gene(s)	Detection		
								Co-	Gene(s)a
							Combination		
								Detections	
									
Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
agalactiae				KPC	1	1	Proteus spp., P.
aeruginosa, S.
agalactiae
P. aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus				-	1	1	P. aeruginosa
P. aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	0	-
S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S.
agalactiae				-	1	1	S. marcescens, S.
agalactiae
S. aureus	S.
agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. aureus, S.
agalactiae, S.
pneumoniae
S. aureus	S.
agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	S. agalactiae, S.
pneumoniae
S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae	S. pyogenes				-	1	1	S. pneumoniae
ACB complex	K.
pneumoniae
group					KPC		1	ACB complex, K.
pneumoniae
group, [KPC]
ACB complex	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	ACB complex, P.
aeruginosa
E. cloacae
complex	K.
aerogenes					-	1	1	K. aerogenes
E. cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca					CTX-Mb	1	1	K. oxytoca
E. cloacae
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group					-			E. cloacae complex (2),
K. pneumoniae group
(2)
E. cloacae
complex	P.
aeruginosa					KPC	1	0	-
E. cloacae
complex	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex, P.
aeruginosa
E. cloacae
complex	S. aureus					NDM	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
[NDM]
E. cloacae
complex	S. aureus					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex, S.
aureus
E. cloacae
complex	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex, S.
pneumoniae
E. coli	K.
aerogenes					-	1	1	E. coli
	K.					-	1	0	-

--- Page 125 ---
#
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
E. coli pneumoniae
group
CTX-M,
mecA/C & S. aureus
E. coli S. aureus 1 1
MREJ
mecA/C &
E. coli S. aureus 1 1 E. coli, S. aureus
MREJ
E. coli (1), S. aureus
E. coli S. aureus - 3 2
(1)
K. H. influenzae, K.
H. influenzae - 1 1
aerogenes aerogenes
K.
pneumoniae - 1 1 H. infuenzae
H. influenzae
group
H. influenzae (4), M.
M.
H. influenzae - 5 5 catarrhalis
catarrhalis
(5)
P.
H. influenzae - 1 1 H. influenzae
aeruginosa
S.
H. influenzae - 1 0 -
marcescens
mecA/C & H. influenzae (3), S.
H. influenzae S. aureus 3 3
MREJ aureus (1)
H. influenzae (4), S.
H. influenzae S. aureus - 6 5
aureus (2)
S. H. influenzae, S.
H. influenzae - 1 1
agalactiae agalactiae
H. influenzae (7), S.
S.
H. influenzae - 7 7 pneumoniae
pneumoniae
(3)
H. influenzae, S.
H. influenzae S. pyogenes - 1 1
pyogenes
mecA/C & K. aerogenes (2), S.
K. aerogenes S. aureus 2 2
MREJ aureus (1)
K. aerogenes S. aureus - 1 1 S. aureus
P.
K. oxytoca - 1 1 K. oxytoca
aeruginosa
S. K. oxytoca (2), S.
K. oxytoca - 2 2
agalactiae agalactiae (2)
K. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
pneumoniae MREJ
125

[Table 1 on page 125]
								#	
							Total		
								Specimens	False Positive
							Specimens		
								with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
								Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	Gene(s)	Detection		
								Co-	Gene(s)a
							Combination		
								Detections	
									
E. coli	pneumoniae
group								
E. coli	S. aureus					CTX-M,
mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. aureus
E. coli	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. coli, S. aureus
E. coli	S. aureus					-	3	2	E. coli (1), S. aureus
(1)
H. influenzae	K.
aerogenes					-	1	1	H. influenzae, K.
aerogenes
H. influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group					-	1	1	H. infuenzae
H. influenzae	M.
catarrhalis					-	5	5	H. influenzae (4), M.
catarrhalis
(5)
H. influenzae	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	H. influenzae
H. influenzae	S.
marcescens					-	1	0	-
H. influenzae	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	3	3	H. influenzae (3), S.
aureus (1)
H. influenzae	S. aureus					-	6	5	H. influenzae (4), S.
aureus (2)
H. influenzae	S.
agalactiae					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
agalactiae
H. influenzae	S.
pneumoniae					-	7	7	H. influenzae (7), S.
pneumoniae
(3)
H. influenzae	S. pyogenes					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
pyogenes
K. aerogenes	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	K. aerogenes (2), S.
aureus (1)
K. aerogenes	S. aureus					-	1	1	S. aureus
K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	K. oxytoca
K. oxytoca	S.
agalactiae					-	2	2	K. oxytoca (2), S.
agalactiae (2)
K.
pneumoniae	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	K. pneumoniae group

--- Page 126 ---
#
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
group
K.
K. pneumoniae group,
pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1
S. aureus
group
M. catarrhalis Proteus spp. - 1 1 M. catarrhalis
S. M. catarrhalis, S.
M. catarrhalis - 1 1
pneumoniae pneumoniae
M. catarrhalis, S.
M. catarrhalis S. pyogenes - 1 1
pyogenes
mecA/C & S. aureus, [mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 1
MREJ MREJ]
P. aeruginosa (3), S.
mecA/C &
P. aeruginosa S. aureus 5 4 aureus (2), [mecA/C &
MREJ
MREJ]
P. aeruginosa S. aureus - 2 2 S. aureus (2)
S. P. aeruginosa, S.
P. aeruginosa - 1 1
agalactiae agalactiae
S. P. aeruginosa, S.
P. aeruginosa - 1 1
pneumoniae pneumoniae
S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 S. marcescens
marcescens MREJ
S. S. marcescens, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
marcescens aureus
S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 S. agalactiae
agalactiae MREJ
S. S. aureus (4), S.
S. aureus - 4 4
agalactiae agalactiae (3)
S. mecA/C & S. aureus, S.
S. aureus 1 1
pneumoniae MREJ pneumoniae
Total Co-Detections 110 103 187c/273
Total Double Detections 74 68 103/148
Total Triple Detections 22 21 44/66
Total Quadruple Detections 12 12 34/48
Total Quintuple Detections 1 1 1/5
Total Sextuple Detections 1 1 5/6
a. AMR genes compared to qMol
b. Performance not determined
c. Of the 187 discrepant analytes (out of 273 total analytes), all 187 (100%) were observed as being present in the specimen during discrepancy investigation; 55/187 (29.4%)
were enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 112/187
d. (59.9%) were detected by qMol, 17/187 (9.1%) were detected using an additional molecular method, and the remaining 3/187 (1.6%) were identified in SOC culture.
126

[Table 1 on page 126]
								#	
							Total		
								Specimens	False Positive
							Specimens		
								with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
								Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	Gene(s)	Detection		
								Co-	Gene(s)a
							Combination		
								Detections	
									
group									
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus					-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group,
S. aureus
M. catarrhalis	Proteus spp.					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis
M. catarrhalis	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
pneumoniae
M. catarrhalis	S. pyogenes					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
pyogenes
Proteus spp.	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. aureus, [mecA/C &
MREJ]
P. aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	5	4	P. aeruginosa (3), S.
aureus (2), [mecA/C &
MREJ]
P. aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	2	2	S. aureus (2)
P. aeruginosa	S.
agalactiae					-	1	1	P. aeruginosa, S.
agalactiae
P. aeruginosa	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	P. aeruginosa, S.
pneumoniae
S.
marcescens	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. marcescens
S.
marcescens	S. aureus					-	1	1	S. marcescens, S.
aureus
S. aureus	S.
agalactiae					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. agalactiae
S. aureus	S.
agalactiae					-	4	4	S. aureus (4), S.
agalactiae (3)
S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. aureus, S.
pneumoniae
Total Co-Detections							110	103	187c/273
Total Double Detections							74	68	103/148
Total Triple Detections							22	21	44/66
Total Quadruple Detections							12	12	34/48
Total Quintuple Detections							1	1	1/5
Total Sextuple Detections							1	1	5/6

--- Page 127 ---
Table 108: Co-detections of Non-atypical Bacteria in Sputum Detected by FilmArray Pneumonia Panel and
Compared to qRefCx
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
ACB P. S. S. mecA/C & ACB complex, S.
Proteus spp. S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1
complex aeruginosa marcescens pneumoniae MREJ agalactiae
E. coli, K.
pneumoniae group,
K.
M. P. mecA/C & M. catarrhalis,
E. coli pneumoniae Proteus spp. S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1
catarrhalis aeruginosa MREJ Proteus spp., P.
group
aeruginosa, S. aureus,
S. agalactiae
K.
H. P. S. H. influenzae, K.
pneumoniae S. aureus S. agalactiae - 1 1
influenzae aeruginosa marcescens pneumoniae group
group
M. catarrhalis, P.
M. P. S. mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1 aeruginosa, S. aureus,
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens MREJ
S. agalactiae
M. catarrhalis,
CTX-M, Proteus spp., S.
M. P. S.
Proteus spp. S. aureus S. agalactiae mecA/C & 1 1 aureus, S. agalactiae,
catarrhalis aeruginosa pneumoniae
MREJ S. pneumoniae,
[mecA/C & MREJ]
ACB complex, K.
E. K.
ACB K. aerogenes, K.
cloacae pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1
complex aerogenes pneumoniae group, S.
complex group
aureus
K. KPC, K. aerogenes, S.
ACB K. P.
pneumoniae S. aureus mecA/C & 1 1 aureus, [mecA/C &
complex aerogenes aeruginosa
group MREJ, VIM MREJ]
M. catarrhalis, P.
ACB M. P. mecA/C &
S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1 aeruginosa, S.
complex catarrhalis aeruginosa MREJ
agalactiae
E. cloacae complex,
E. K.
K. M. K. aerogenes, K.
cloacae E. coli pneumoniae - 1 1
aerogenes catarrhalis pneumoniae group,
complex group
M. catarrhalis
E. cloacae complex,
E. K.
S. K. oxytoca, K.
cloacae K. oxytoca pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1
marcescens pneumoniae group, S.
complex group
marcescens
E. coli, H. influenzae,
P. K. oxytoca, P.
E. coli H. influenzae K. oxytoca S. agalactiae - 1 1
aeruginosa aeruginosa, S.
agalactiae
127

[Table 1 on page 127]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
ACB
complex	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae	mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	ACB complex, S.
agalactiae
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus	S. agalactiae	mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. coli, K.
pneumoniae group,
M. catarrhalis,
Proteus spp., P.
aeruginosa, S. aureus,
S. agalactiae
H.
influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S. agalactiae		-	1	1	H. influenzae, K.
pneumoniae group
M.
catarrhalis	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S. agalactiae		mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis, P.
aeruginosa, S. aureus,
S. agalactiae
M.
catarrhalis	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae		CTX-M,
mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis,
Proteus spp., S.
aureus, S. agalactiae,
S. pneumoniae,
[mecA/C & MREJ]
ACB
complex	E.
cloacae
complex	K.
aerogenes	K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus			-	1	1	ACB complex, K.
aerogenes, K.
pneumoniae group, S.
aureus
ACB
complex	K.
aerogenes	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus			KPC,
mecA/C &
MREJ, VIM	1	1	K. aerogenes, S.
aureus, [mecA/C &
MREJ]
ACB
complex	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus	S. agalactiae			mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis, P.
aeruginosa, S.
agalactiae
E.
cloacae
complex	E. coli	K.
aerogenes	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis			-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. aerogenes, K.
pneumoniae group,
M. catarrhalis
E.
cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca	K.
pneumoniae
group	S.
marcescens	S. aureus			-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. oxytoca, K.
pneumoniae group, S.
marcescens
E. coli	H. influenzae	K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa	S. agalactiae			-	1	1	E. coli, H. influenzae,
K. oxytoca, P.
aeruginosa, S.
agalactiae

--- Page 128 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
K. oxytoca, S.
S. mecA/C &
E. coli K. oxytoca S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1 marcescens,
marcescens MREJ
S. agalactiae
M. P. S.
E. coli S. agalactiae - 1 1 M. catarrhalis
catarrhalis aeruginosa pneumoniae
H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis,
H. M. P. S.
S. agalactiae - 1 1 P. aeruginosa, S.
influenzae catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens
marcescens, S.
agalactiae
M. catarrhalis, P.
M. P. S. mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 1 aeruginosa, S.
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens MREJ
marcescens, S. aureus
M. catarrhalis (2), P.
M. P. S. S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 2 2 aeruginosa (2), S.
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens pneumoniae MREJ
marcescens (1)
E. ACB complex, E.
ACB
cloacae K. oxytoca S. aureus - 1 1 cloacae
complex
complex complex
K. ACB complex, E.
ACB P.
E. coli pneumoniae - 1 1 coli, K. pneumoniae
complex aeruginosa
group group
ACB complex, E.
ACB
E. coli S. aureus S. agalactiae - 1 1 coli, S. aureus, S.
complex
agalactiae
K.
ACB M. mecA/C &
pneumoniae S. aureus 1 1 M. catarrhalis
complex catarrhalis MREJ
group
K.
ACB P. CTX-M, ACB complex,
pneumoniae Proteus spp. 1 1
complex aeruginosa KPC Proteus spp.
group
ACB complex, M.
ACB M. P.
S. aureus - 1 1 catarrhalis, P.
complex catarrhalis aeruginosa
aeruginosa, S. aureus
ACB P. S. ACB complex, S.
Proteus spp. - 1 1
complex aeruginosa marcescens marcescens
E. K. E. cloacae complex,
S.
cloacae K. oxytoca pneumoniae - 1 1 K. oxytoca, S.
marcescens
complex group marcescens
E. K.
P.
cloacae pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1 E. cloacae complex
aeruginosa
complex group
H. influenzae, S.
S.
E. coli H. influenzae S. aureus - 1 1 aureus, S.
pneumoniae
pneumoniae
128

[Table 1 on page 128]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
E. coli	K. oxytoca	S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S. agalactiae			mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	K. oxytoca, S.
marcescens,
S. agalactiae
E. coli	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae			-	1	1	M. catarrhalis
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. agalactiae			-	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis,
P. aeruginosa, S.
marcescens, S.
agalactiae
M.
catarrhalis	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus			mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis, P.
aeruginosa, S.
marcescens, S. aureus
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae			mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	M. catarrhalis (2), P.
aeruginosa (2), S.
marcescens (1)
ACB
complex	E.
cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca	S. aureus				-	1	1	ACB complex, E.
cloacae
complex
ACB
complex	E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa				-	1	1	ACB complex, E.
coli, K. pneumoniae
group
ACB
complex	E. coli	S. aureus	S. agalactiae				-	1	1	ACB complex, E.
coli, S. aureus, S.
agalactiae
ACB
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis
ACB
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa				CTX-M,
KPC	1	1	ACB complex,
Proteus spp.
ACB
complex	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				-	1	1	ACB complex, M.
catarrhalis, P.
aeruginosa, S. aureus
ACB
complex	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens				-	1	1	ACB complex, S.
marcescens
E.
cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca	K.
pneumoniae
group	S.
marcescens				-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. oxytoca, S.
marcescens
E.
cloacae
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				-	1	1	E. cloacae complex
E. coli	H. influenzae	S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus, S.
pneumoniae

--- Page 129 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
K. E. coli, K.
M. mecA/C &
E. coli pneumoniae S. aureus 1 1 pneumoniae group, M.
catarrhalis MREJ
group catarrhalis, S. aureus
K.
P.
E. coli pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
aeruginosa
group
P. mecA/C &
E. coli Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 0 -
aeruginosa MREJ
E. coli, P. aeruginosa,
P. S. S.
E. coli - 1 1 S. marcescens, S.
aeruginosa marcescens pneumoniae
pneumoniae
H. K. P.
S. pyogenes - 1 1 K. aerogenes
influenzae aerogenes aeruginosa
H. influenzae, M.
H. M. P. mecA/C & catarrhalis,
S. aureus 1 1
influenzae catarrhalis aeruginosa MREJ P. aeruginosa,
[mecA/C & MREJ]
H. M. P. S.
- 1 1 M. catarrhalis
influenzae catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens
H. P. S. H. influenzae, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
influenzae aeruginosa marcescens marcescens, S. aureus
H. P. S. S.
- 1 0 -
influenzae aeruginosa marcescens pneumoniae
H. influenzae, S.
H. S.
S. aureus S. agalactiae - 1 1 agalactiae,
influenzae pneumoniae
S. pneumoniae
K.
P. S. K. pneumoniae group,
pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1
aeruginosa marcescens S. aureus
group
M. P. S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 M. catarrhalis
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens MREJ
M. catarrhalis, P.
M. P. S.
S. aureus - 1 1 aeruginosa, S.
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens
marcescens, S. aureus
E.
ACB mecA/C &
cloacae S. aureus 1 1 E. cloacae complex
complex MREJ
complex
ACB ACB complex, H.
H. influenzae S. aureus - 1 1
complex influenzae, S. aureus
K.
ACB P. ACB complex, K.
pneumoniae - 1 1
complex aeruginosa pneumoniae group
group
ACB mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 0 -
complex MREJ
ACB P. S. ACB complex, P.
- 1 1
complex aeruginosa marcescens aeruginosa, S.
129

[Table 1 on page 129]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. coli, K.
pneumoniae group, M.
catarrhalis, S. aureus
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group
E. coli	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	-
E. coli	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	E. coli, P. aeruginosa,
S. marcescens, S.
pneumoniae
H.
influenzae	K.
aerogenes	P.
aeruginosa	S. pyogenes				-	1	1	K. aerogenes
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis,
P. aeruginosa,
[mecA/C & MREJ]
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens				-	1	1	M. catarrhalis
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus				-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
marcescens, S. aureus
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	0	-
H.
influenzae	S. aureus	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae				-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
agalactiae,
S. pneumoniae
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus				-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group,
S. aureus
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus				mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. aureus				-	1	1	M. catarrhalis, P.
aeruginosa, S.
marcescens, S. aureus
ACB
complex	E.
cloacae
complex	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. cloacae complex
ACB
complex	H. influenzae	S. aureus					-	1	1	ACB complex, H.
influenzae, S. aureus
ACB
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	ACB complex, K.
pneumoniae group
ACB
complex	Proteus spp.	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	-
ACB
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens					-	1	1	ACB complex, P.
aeruginosa, S.

--- Page 130 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
marcescens
ACB complex (2), P.
ACB P. mecA/C &
S. aureus 2 2 aeruginosa (1), S.
complex aeruginosa MREJ
aureus (1)
ACB P. ACB complex, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
complex aeruginosa aureus
ACB P.
S. agalactiae - 1 0 -
complex aeruginosa
E.
E. cloacae complex,
cloacae E. coli K. oxytoca - 1 1
K. oxytoca
complex
E.
P. H. influenzae, P.
cloacae H. influenzae - 1 1
aeruginosa aeruginosa
complex
E.
M. H. influenzae, M.
cloacae H. influenzae - 1 1
catarrhalis catarrhalis
complex
E. K.
K. E. cloacae complex,
cloacae pneumoniae - 1 1
aerogenes K. pneumoniae group
complex group
E.
M. E. cloacae complex,
cloacae K. oxytoca - 1 1
catarrhalis M. catarrhalis
complex
E. K. E. cloacae complex,
cloacae pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1 K. pneumoniae group,
complex group S. aureus
E.
M. M. catarrhalis, S.
cloacae S. aureus - 1 1
catarrhalis aureus
complex
E.
P. mecA/C &
cloacae S. aureus 1 1 E. cloacae complex
aeruginosa MREJ
complex
E.
P.
cloacae S. aureus - 1 1 E. cloacae complex
aeruginosa
complex
P. E. coli, H. influenzae,
E. coli H. influenzae - 1 1
aeruginosa P. aeruginosa
H. influenzae, S.
E. coli H. influenzae S. aureus CTX-M 1 1
aureus
E. coli, H. influenzae,
E. coli H. influenzae S. agalactiae - 1 1
S. agalactiae
K.
P.
E. coli pneumoniae CTX-M 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
aeruginosa
group
K. P. E. coli, K.
E. coli - 1 1
pneumoniae aeruginosa pneumoniae group,
130

[Table 1 on page 130]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
										marcescens
ACB
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	ACB complex (2), P.
aeruginosa (1), S.
aureus (1)
ACB
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	1	1	ACB complex, S.
aureus
ACB
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S. agalactiae					-	1	0	-
E.
cloacae
complex	E. coli	K. oxytoca					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. oxytoca
E.
cloacae
complex	H. influenzae	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	H. influenzae, P.
aeruginosa
E.
cloacae
complex	H. influenzae	M.
catarrhalis					-	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis
E.
cloacae
complex	K.
aerogenes	K.
pneumoniae
group					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. pneumoniae group
E.
cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca	M.
catarrhalis					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
M. catarrhalis
E.
cloacae
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. pneumoniae group,
S. aureus
E.
cloacae
complex	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
aureus
E.
cloacae
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. cloacae complex
E.
cloacae
complex	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	1	1	E. cloacae complex
E. coli	H. influenzae	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	E. coli, H. influenzae,
P. aeruginosa
E. coli	H. influenzae	S. aureus					CTX-M	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus
E. coli	H. influenzae	S. agalactiae					-	1	1	E. coli, H. influenzae,
S. agalactiae
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa					CTX-M	1	1	K. pneumoniae group
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	E. coli, K.
pneumoniae group,

--- Page 131 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
group P. aeruginosa
K.
mecA/C & E. coli, K.
E. coli pneumoniae S. aureus 1 1
MREJ pneumoniae group
group
K.
E. coli pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 1 S. aureus
group
M. P.
E. coli - 1 1 E. coli, M. catarrhalis
catarrhalis aeruginosa
P.
E. coli Proteus spp. - 1 1 E. coli, P. aeruginosa
aeruginosa
P. mecA/C &
E. coli S. aureus 1 1 P. aeruginosa
aeruginosa MREJ
P.
E. coli S. aureus - 1 0 -
aeruginosa
K. H. influenzae (1), K.
H.
pneumoniae S. aureus 2 2 pneumoniae groupb
influenzae
group (1), S. aureus (2)
H. influenzae (2), M.
H. M. P.
- 2 2 catarrhalis (2), P.
influenzae catarrhalis aeruginosa
aeruginosa(1)
H. influenzae, M.
H. M. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 catarrhalis,
influenzae catarrhalis MREJ
S. aureus
H. M. H. influenzae, S.
S. aureus - 1 1
influenzae catarrhalis aureus
H. influenzae, M.
H. M.
S. agalactiae - 1 1 catarrhalis,
influenzae catarrhalis
S. agalactiae
H. influenzae (2), M.
H. M. S.
- 3 3 catarrhalis (3), S.
influenzae catarrhalis pneumoniae
pneumoniae (2)
H. P. S. H. influenzae, S.
- 1 1
influenzae aeruginosa marcescens marcescens
H. influenzae (2), P.
H. P.
S. aureus - 2 2 aeruginosa (2), S.
influenzae aeruginosa
aureus (1)
H. influenzae, P.
H. P. S.
- 1 1 aeruginosa, S.
influenzae aeruginosa pneumoniae
pneumoniae
H. S. S. H. influenzae, S.
- 1 1
influenzae marcescens pneumoniae pneumoniae
H. H. influenzae, S.
S. aureus S. agalactiae - 1 1
influenzae aureus, S. agalactiae
131

[Table 1 on page 131]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
	group									P. aeruginosa
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	E. coli, K.
pneumoniae group
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus					-	1	1	S. aureus
E. coli	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	E. coli, M. catarrhalis
E. coli	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	E. coli, P. aeruginosa
E. coli	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	P. aeruginosa
E. coli	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	1	0	-
H.
influenzae	K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus						2	2	H. influenzae (1), K.
pneumoniae groupb
(1), S. aureus (2)
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa					-	2	2	H. influenzae (2), M.
catarrhalis (2), P.
aeruginosa(1)
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis,
S. aureus
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S. agalactiae					-	1	1	H. influenzae, M.
catarrhalis,
S. agalactiae
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis	S.
pneumoniae					-	3	3	H. influenzae (2), M.
catarrhalis (3), S.
pneumoniae (2)
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
marcescens
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	2	2	H. influenzae (2), P.
aeruginosa (2), S.
aureus (1)
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	H. influenzae, P.
aeruginosa, S.
pneumoniae
H.
influenzae	S.
marcescens	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
pneumoniae
H.
influenzae	S. aureus	S. agalactiae					-	1	1	H. influenzae, S.
aureus, S. agalactiae

--- Page 132 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
H. S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae pneumoniae MREJ
H.
S. aureus S. pyogenes - 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae
H. S.
S. agalactiae - 1 1 S. agalactiae
influenzae pneumoniae
K. P.
Proteus spp. - 1 1 P. aeruginosa
aerogenes aeruginosa
P. mecA/C &
K. oxytoca S. aureus 1 0 -
aeruginosa MREJ
S.
K. oxytoca S. aureus - 1 0 -
marcescens
mecA/C & K. oxytoca, S.
K. oxytoca S. aureus S. agalactiae 1 1
MREJ agalactiae
K.
P. mecA/C & K. pneumoniae group
pneumoniae S. aureus 2 2
aeruginosa MREJ (2), P. aeruginosa (1)
group
K.
P.
pneumoniae S. aureus - 1 0 -
aeruginosa
group
K. K. pneumoniae group,
S. S.
pneumoniae - 1 1 S. marcescens, S.
marcescens pneumoniae
group pneumoniae
K.
pneumoniae - 1 1 S. agalactiae
S. aureus S. agalactiae
group
M. M. catarrhalis,
Proteus spp. S. agalactiae - 1 1
catarrhalis Proteus spp.
M. P. S. M. catarrhalis, S.
- 1 1
catarrhalis aeruginosa marcescens marcescens
CTX-M,
M. P. M. catarrhalis, S.
S. aureus mecA/C & 1 1
catarrhalis aeruginosa aureus
MREJ
M. S. mecA/C & M. catarrhalis, S.
S. aureus 1 1
catarrhalis pneumoniae MREJ pneumoniae
M. catarrhalis (2), S.
M. S.
S. aureus - 2 2 aureus (1), S.
catarrhalis pneumoniae
pneumoniae (1)
P. S.
Proteus spp. - 2 2 Proteus spp. (2)
aeruginosa marcescens
P. mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 1 S. aureus
aeruginosa MREJ
P. S.
Proteus spp. - 1 1 Proteus spp.
aeruginosa pneumoniae
P. S.
S. agalactiae KPC 1 1 S. agalactiae
aeruginosa marcescens
132

[Table 1 on page 132]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
H.
influenzae	S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	S. aureus	S. pyogenes					-	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	S. agalactiae
K.
aerogenes	Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa					-	1	1	P. aeruginosa
K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	-
K. oxytoca	S.
marcescens	S. aureus					-	1	0	-
K. oxytoca	S. aureus	S. agalactiae					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	K. oxytoca, S.
agalactiae
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	K. pneumoniae group
(2), P. aeruginosa (1)
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					-	1	0	-
K.
pneumoniae
group	S.
marcescens	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group,
S. marcescens, S.
pneumoniae
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus	S. agalactiae					-	1	1	S. agalactiae
M.
catarrhalis	Proteus spp.	S. agalactiae					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis,
Proteus spp.
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens					-	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
marcescens
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					CTX-M,
mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
aureus
M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	M. catarrhalis, S.
pneumoniae
M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae					-	2	2	M. catarrhalis (2), S.
aureus (1), S.
pneumoniae (1)
Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens					-	2	2	Proteus spp. (2)
Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus					mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. aureus
Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	Proteus spp.
P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens	S. agalactiae					KPC	1	1	S. agalactiae

--- Page 133 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
P. mecA/C & S. aureus (1), S.
S. aureus S. agalactiae 2 2
aeruginosa MREJ agalactiae (1)
P. S. S. agalactiae, S.
S. agalactiae - 1 1
aeruginosa pneumoniae pneumoniae
E.
ACB
cloacae - 1 1 ACB complex
complex
complex
ACB P.
- 1 1 ACB complex
complex aeruginosa
ACB complex (1), S.
ACB mecA/C &
S. aureus 3 2 aureus (2), [mecA/C
complex MREJ
& MREJ (1)]
E.
E. cloacae complex
cloacae E. coli - 2 2
(1), E. coli (2)
complex
E.
cloacae K. oxytoca - 1 0 -
complex
E. K.
E. cloacae complex,
cloacae pneumoniae - 1 1
K. pneumoniae group
complex group
E.
P. E. cloacae complex,
cloacae - 1 1
aeruginosa P. aeruginosa
complex
E.
mecA/C & E. cloacae complex
cloacae S. aureus 3 1
MREJ (1)
complex
E. coli H. influenzae - 1 1 H. influenzae
K.
E. coli pneumoniae KPC 1 0 -
group
K.
E. coli pneumoniae - 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
group
M.
E. coli - 1 1 E. coli, M. catarrhalis
catarrhalis
E. coli Proteus spp. CTX-M 1 1 E. coli, Proteus spp.
P.
E. coli CTX-M 1 0 -
aeruginosa
P. E. coli (1), P.
E. coli - 2 1
aeruginosa aeruginosa (1)
mecA/C & E. coli (2), S. aureus
E. coli S. aureus 3 3
MREJ (2)
E. coli S. aureus - 1 1 S. aureus
E. coli S. pyogenes - 1 1 S. pyogenes
133

[Table 1 on page 133]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus	S. agalactiae					mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	S. aureus (1), S.
agalactiae (1)
P.
aeruginosa	S. agalactiae	S.
pneumoniae					-	1	1	S. agalactiae, S.
pneumoniae
ACB
complex	E.
cloacae
complex						-	1	1	ACB complex
ACB
complex	P.
aeruginosa						-	1	1	ACB complex
ACB
complex	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	3	2	ACB complex (1), S.
aureus (2), [mecA/C
& MREJ (1)]
E.
cloacae
complex	E. coli						-	2	2	E. cloacae complex
(1), E. coli (2)
E.
cloacae
complex	K. oxytoca						-	1	0	-
E.
cloacae
complex	K.
pneumoniae
group						-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
K. pneumoniae group
E.
cloacae
complex	P.
aeruginosa						-	1	1	E. cloacae complex,
P. aeruginosa
E.
cloacae
complex	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	3	1	E. cloacae complex
(1)
E. coli	H. influenzae						-	1	1	H. influenzae
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group						KPC	1	0	-
E. coli	K.
pneumoniae
group						-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group
E. coli	M.
catarrhalis						-	1	1	E. coli, M. catarrhalis
E. coli	Proteus spp.						CTX-M	1	1	E. coli, Proteus spp.
E. coli	P.
aeruginosa						CTX-M	1	0	-
E. coli	P.
aeruginosa						-	2	1	E. coli (1), P.
aeruginosa (1)
E. coli	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	3	3	E. coli (2), S. aureus
(2)
E. coli	S. aureus						-	1	1	S. aureus
E. coli	S. pyogenes						-	1	1	S. pyogenes

--- Page 134 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
H. M. H. influenzae (4), M.
6 6
influenzae catarrhalis catarrhalis (6)
H.
Proteus spp. - 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae
H. P.
- 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae aeruginosa
H. S.
- 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae marcescens
H. influenzae (2), S.
H. mecA/C &
S. aureus 2 2 aureus (2), [mecA/C
influenzae MREJ
& MREJ (1)]
H. H. influenzae (9), S.
S. aureus - 10 9
influenzae aureus(6)
H.
S. agalactiae - 1 1 H. influenzae
influenzae
H. S. H. influenzae (4), S.
- 4 4
influenzae pneumoniae pneumoniae (4)
K. K. aerogenes (2), S.
S. aureus - 3 3
aerogenes aureus (2)
K.
K. oxytoca pneumoniae - 2 0 -
group
M. K. oxytoca, M.
K. oxytoca - 1 1
catarrhalis catarrhalis
P.
K. oxytoca - 1 1 K. oxytoca
aeruginosa
K. oxytoca S. aureus - 2 0 -
K.
P.
pneumoniae KPC 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
aeruginosa
group
K.
P. K. pneumoniae group
pneumoniae - 4 4
aeruginosa (4), P. aeruginosa (2)
group
K. CTX-M,
pneumoniae S. aureus mecA/C & 1 1 K. pneumoniae group
group MREJ
K. pneumoniae group
K.
mecA/C & (1), S. aureus (2),
pneumoniae S. aureus 3 2
MREJ [mecA/C & MREJ
group
(2)]
K.
K. pneumoniae group,
pneumoniae S. agalactiae - 1 1
S. agalactiae
group
M. P. M. catarrhalis (2), P.
- 3 3
catarrhalis aeruginosa aeruginosa (2)
134

[Table 1 on page 134]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
H.
influenzae	M.
catarrhalis							6	6	H. influenzae (4), M.
catarrhalis (6)
H.
influenzae	Proteus spp.						-	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	P.
aeruginosa						-	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	S.
marcescens						-	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	2	2	H. influenzae (2), S.
aureus (2), [mecA/C
& MREJ (1)]
H.
influenzae	S. aureus						-	10	9	H. influenzae (9), S.
aureus(6)
H.
influenzae	S. agalactiae						-	1	1	H. influenzae
H.
influenzae	S.
pneumoniae						-	4	4	H. influenzae (4), S.
pneumoniae (4)
K.
aerogenes	S. aureus						-	3	3	K. aerogenes (2), S.
aureus (2)
K. oxytoca	K.
pneumoniae
group						-	2	0	-
K. oxytoca	M.
catarrhalis						-	1	1	K. oxytoca, M.
catarrhalis
K. oxytoca	P.
aeruginosa						-	1	1	K. oxytoca
K. oxytoca	S. aureus						-	2	0	-
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa						KPC	1	1	K. pneumoniae group
K.
pneumoniae
group	P.
aeruginosa						-	4	4	K. pneumoniae group
(4), P. aeruginosa (2)
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus						CTX-M,
mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	K. pneumoniae group
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	3	2	K. pneumoniae group
(1), S. aureus (2),
[mecA/C & MREJ
(2)]
K.
pneumoniae
group	S. agalactiae						-	1	1	K. pneumoniae group,
S. agalactiae
M.
catarrhalis	P.
aeruginosa						-	3	3	M. catarrhalis (2), P.
aeruginosa (2)

--- Page 135 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
M. S.
- 2 2 M. catarrhalis (2)
catarrhalis marcescens
M. mecA/C & M. catarrhalis (3), S.
S. aureus 4 3
catarrhalis MREJ aureus (2)
M. M. catarrhalis (1), S.
S. aureus - 2 2
catarrhalis aureus(1)
M.
S. agalactiae - 1 1 M. catarrhalis
catarrhalis
M. S. M. catarrhalis (4), S.
- 4 4
catarrhalis pneumoniae pneumoniae (3)
P.
Proteus spp. - 1 1 -
aeruginosa
mecA/C &
Proteus spp. S. aureus 1 0 -
MREJ
P. S. P. aeruginosa (2), S.
- 7 4
aeruginosa marcescens marcescens (2)
CTX-M,
P. [CTX-M, mecA/C &
S. aureus mecA/C & 1 0
aeruginosa MREJ]
MREJ
P. mecA/C & P. aeruginosa (4), S.
S. aureus 12 8
aeruginosa MREJ aureus (8)
P. P. aeruginosa (2), S.
S. aureus - 4 2
aeruginosa aureus (1)
P. S. P. aeruginosa, S.
- 1 1
aeruginosa pneumoniae pneumoniae
S. marcescens (2), S.
S. mecA/C &
S. aureus 3 2 aureus (1), [mecA/C
marcescens MREJ
& MREJ (1)]
S. S. marcescens (1), S.
S. aureus - 2 2
marcescens aureus (1)
S. S. marcescensb, S.
S. pyogenes VIM 1 1
marcescens pyogenes, [VIM]
mecA/C & S. aureus (2), S.
S. aureus S. agalactiae 4 4
MREJ agalactiae (4)
S. aureus (2), S.
S. aureus S. agalactiae - 4 3
agalactiae (3)
S. mecA/C & S. pneumoniae,
S. aureus 1 1
pneumoniae MREJ [mecA/C & MREJ]
S. S. aureus (2), S.
S. aureus 5 4
pneumoniae pneumoniae (4)
mecA/C &
S. aureus S. pyogenes 1 0 -
MREJ
Total Co-Detections 246 209 392b/667
Total Double Detections 135 106 155/270
135

[Table 1 on page 135]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
M.
catarrhalis	S.
marcescens						-	2	2	M. catarrhalis (2)
M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	4	3	M. catarrhalis (3), S.
aureus (2)
M.
catarrhalis	S. aureus						-	2	2	M. catarrhalis (1), S.
aureus(1)
M.
catarrhalis	S. agalactiae						-	1	1	M. catarrhalis
M.
catarrhalis	S.
pneumoniae						-	4	4	M. catarrhalis (4), S.
pneumoniae (3)
Proteus spp.	P.
aeruginosa						-	1	1	-
Proteus spp.	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	-
P.
aeruginosa	S.
marcescens						-	7	4	P. aeruginosa (2), S.
marcescens (2)
P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus						CTX-M,
mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	[CTX-M, mecA/C &
MREJ]
P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	12	8	P. aeruginosa (4), S.
aureus (8)
P.
aeruginosa	S. aureus						-	4	2	P. aeruginosa (2), S.
aureus (1)
P.
aeruginosa	S.
pneumoniae						-	1	1	P. aeruginosa, S.
pneumoniae
S.
marcescens	S. aureus						mecA/C &
MREJ	3	2	S. marcescens (2), S.
aureus (1), [mecA/C
& MREJ (1)]
S.
marcescens	S. aureus						-	2	2	S. marcescens (1), S.
aureus (1)
S.
marcescens	S. pyogenes						VIM	1	1	S. marcescensb, S.
pyogenes, [VIM]
S. aureus	S. agalactiae						mecA/C &
MREJ	4	4	S. aureus (2), S.
agalactiae (4)
S. aureus	S. agalactiae						-	4	3	S. aureus (2), S.
agalactiae (3)
S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae						mecA/C &
MREJ	1	1	S. pneumoniae,
[mecA/C & MREJ]
S. aureus	S.
pneumoniae							5	4	S. aureus (2), S.
pneumoniae (4)
S. aureus	S. pyogenes						mecA/C &
MREJ	1	0	-
Total Co-Detections								246	209	392b/667
Total Double Detections								135	106	155/270

--- Page 136 ---
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations #
Total
Specimens False Positive
Specimens
with False Analyte(s) [False
Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte Analyte AMR with Co-
Positive Positive AMR
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gene(s) Detection Co- Gene(s)a
Combination
Detections
Total Triple Detections 71 65 125/213
Total Quadruple Detections 23 21 52/92
Total Quintuple Detections 12 12 40/60
Total Sextuple Detections 3 3 11/18
Total Septuple Detections 2 2 9/14
a AMR genes compared to qMol
b Discrepant analyte could not be confirmed as being present in the specimen during discrepancy investigation.
c Of the 392 discrepant analytes (out of 667 total analytes), 390 (99.5%) were observed as being present in the specimen during discrepancy investigation; 79/392 (20.2%) were
enumerated below 103.5 CFU/mL by qRefCx, 271/392 (69.1%) were detected by qMol, 34/392 (8.7%) were detected using an additional molecular method, and 6/392 (1.5%)
were identifed in SOC culture.
N. Instrument Name:
FilmArray, FilmArray 2.0, or FilmArray Torch
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device?
Yes ________ or No ___X_____
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ____X____
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for this line of product types:
Yes ___X_____ or No ________
Level of Concern
Moderate
Software Description
A detailed description of the FilmArray software was provided and included the function of each FilmArray
System software component.
136

[Table 1 on page 136]
Distinct Co-Detection Combinations									#	
								Total		
									Specimens	False Positive
								Specimens		
									with False	Analyte(s) [False
Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	Analyte	AMR	with Co-		
									Positive	Positive AMR
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	Gene(s)	Detection		
									Co-	Gene(s)a
								Combination		
									Detections	
										
Total Triple Detections								71	65	125/213
Total Quadruple Detections								23	21	52/92
Total Quintuple Detections								12	12	40/60
Total Sextuple Detections								3	3	11/18
Total Septuple Detections								2	2	9/14

--- Page 137 ---
Device Hazard Analysis:
The firm performed a risk analysis on the FilmArray Software pouch modules to identify risks and their
possible causes in accordance with their Risk Analysis SOP. Risks associated with the FilmArray Pouch
were categorized into two types—
• System risks with mitigations in the FilmArray Pouch Module Software, or
• Software risks isolated to the FilmArray Pouch Module Software
For each risk identified, the risk analysis determines if mitigation is required. Hazards were classified into
four types: false positive results, false negative results, assay reporting errors, and delayed test results. For
each of these hazard types, a severity of harm was defined by a medical expert with the following
rationale—
Severity
Hazard Rationale
of Harm
False M The patient is treated unnecessarily and there is delayed treatment for
Positive the true cause. Unnecessary precautions and expenses are incurred.
False M Risk scenarios are misjudged. The patient may not receive necessary
Negative treatment.
Delayed/No L The test must be re-run, resulting in delayed treatment.
Result
Reporting M Results for validated assays may not be reported, or results for un-
Error validated assays may be reported.
M= medium risk, L= low risk
Risk scores were calculated as a function of severity, the likelihood of occurrence, and the likelihood of the
hazardous situation. Mitigations for potential hazards include qualifying calls by checking the Tm and
checking for potential errors associated with the melt data analysis. As part of the release of the FilmArray
Respiratory Panel test, the Melt Detector was optimized on a training data set and validated against the
Clinical Evaluation Data. The FilmArray Pouch Module Software was also tested and successfully executed
to demonstrate compatibility with the FilmArray software.
In addition, because the panel can be used on both the FilmArray v1.5 and v2.0 Systems, the Analysis
Software compares the proper .dll files as part of verification testing to ensure that the proper files are used.
The FilmArray pouch module software is designed so that pouch modules compatible with the FilmArray
1.5 systems cannot be installed on the FilmArray 2.0 systems and vice versa. Note, the firm states that the
FilmArray Torch software is similar to the FilmArray 2.0 system software.
The firm also stated that as part of the release of the FilmArray Respiratory Panel, a regression test was
137

[Table 1 on page 137]
	Severity	
Hazard		Rationale
	of Harm	
		
False
Positive	M	The patient is treated unnecessarily and there is delayed treatment for
the true cause. Unnecessary precautions and expenses are incurred.
False
Negative	M	Risk scenarios are misjudged. The patient may not receive necessary
treatment.
Delayed/No
Result	L	The test must be re-run, resulting in delayed treatment.
Reporting
Error	M	Results for validated assays may not be reported, or results for un-
validated assays may be reported.

--- Page 138 ---
successfully executed to show that the release candidate pouch module produced the same results as those
submitted for review.
Further, as detailed in the cybersecurity review, the firm has implemented measures such as encrypting
database passwords to address the potential risk for modification of test data in the database that could
impact listed test results.
After mitigation, all risk scores were at a Low or Immeasurable level.
Architecture Design Chart:
A detailed structure of the software used in the FilmArray System was provided.
Software Requirements Specification (SRS):
SRS documentation was provided describing requirements and specifications for each of the software
components of the FilmArray System was described.
Traceability Analysis:
Documentation of traceability matrix that links all product requirements, functional specifications, and
verification and validation testing for the complete FilmArray system was provided.
Software Development Environment Description:
A description of FilmArray software development environment was provided and was acceptable.
Verification and Validation Testing:
The sponsor provided adequate documentation of verification and validation (V & V) testing covering all
software/instrument components of the FilmArray System. V &V testing of FilmArray System software was
successfully completed at the individual component and system integration levels. The normal operation and
user interface of all FilmArray software components were also tested and verified.
Revision Level History:
The firm provided a software revision level history that detailed the updates to the system software
corresponding to each version.
Unresolved Anomalies:
All major residual risks and unresolved anomalies were properly mitigated. Any remaining anomalies did
not present major concerns for safety and efficacy for either the user or the patient.
EMC Testing:
This submission does not include any new hardware and therefore there are no updates requiring EMC
testing.
138

--- Page 139 ---
5. Specimen Identification:
The Sample ID can be entered manually or scanned in by using the FilmArray barcode scanner.
6. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
N/A
7. Calibration:
N/A
6. Quality Control:
See section M (d) for information on internal and external controls.
O. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The “Performance
Characteristics” Section above:
Not applicable
P. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR parts 801 and 809 as well as the Special Controls
for this type of device.
Q. Patient Perspectives
This submission did not include specific information on patient perspectives for this device.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial equivalence
decision.
The potential value of “semi quantitative” bin reporting to help determine the clinical significance of the pathogens/resistance
markers reported needs to be established by the individual testing site in consideration of current testing practices.
Reporting and interpretation can be patient/institution specific and guidelines should be established and local
education facilitated by joint decisions between various clinical care groups (Laboratory, Infectious Diseases,
Pulmonologists, Intensivists, Infection Control, Pharmacy, antibiotic stewardship committee, etc.)
139