
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k): Device Modification
Decision Summary
To: Alere Scarborough, Inc. RE: K181853
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the SUBMITTER’S own
Class II, Class III or Class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
(delete/add items as necessary):
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device:
Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2
510(k) number: K173502
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as described in
its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes instructions for
use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes
are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. Description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
A software modification has been added to mitigate a low frequency failure mode associated with
detectable but not visible dark spots within the Influenza A test line due to non-specific binding. The
modification checks for a unique signal-to-noise ratio and implements an additional, parallel
quantification algorithm if the specific conditions are detected. Both the original quantification
algorithm and the triggered new algorithm must meet certain criteria in this situation to provide a
valid result. Failure of the new algorithm to meet the necessary analysis conditions (when triggered)
results in an invalid result. The purpose and effect of the change is to reduce the number of false
positive Influenza A results. The Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2 assay package insert and
Quick Reference Instructions (QRI) have not changed. The instrument user manual has been updated to
include the software changes.
4. The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
5. Comparison Information
A. Similarities
Predicate Device Modified Device
Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2 Alere BinaxNOW Influenza
Features
(K173502) A & B Card 2 (K181853)
The Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2 is
an in vitro immunochromatographic assay for
the qualitative detection of influenza A and B
Intended Use nucleoprotein antigens in nasopharyngeal (NP) Same
swab and nasal swab specimens. It is intended
to aid in the rapid differential diagnosis of
influenza A and B viral infections. Negative test

[Table 1 on page 1]
				Predicate Device			Modified Device	
Features				Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2			Alere BinaxNOW Influenza	
				(K173502)			A & B Card 2 (K181853)	
Intended Use			The Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B Card 2 is
an in vitro immunochromatographic assay for
the qualitative detection of influenza A and B
nucleoprotein antigens in nasopharyngeal (NP)
swab and nasal swab specimens. It is intended
to aid in the rapid differential diagnosis of
influenza A and B viral infections. Negative test			Same		

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2of 3
results are presumptive and should be
confirmed by cell culture or an FDA-cleared
influenza A and B molecular assay. Negative
test results do not preclude influenza viral
infection and should not be used as the sole
basis for treatment or other patient management
decisions. Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B
Card 2 must be read by the Alere Reader.
Performance characteristics for influenza A were
established during the 2015-2016 influenza
season when influenza A/H3N2 and A/H1N1
pandemic were the predominant influenza A
viruses in circulation. When other influenza A
viruses are emerging, performance
characteristics may vary.
If infection with a novel influenza A virus is
suspected based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening criteria recommended
by public health authorities, specimens should
be collected with appropriate infection control
precautions for novel virulent Influenza viruses
and sent to state or local health department for
testing. Viral culture should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is available
to receive and culture specimens.
Sample Type Nasopharyngeal and nasal swabs Same
Assay Target Nucleoprotein Antigen of Influenza A and B Same
Instrumentation Alere Reader Same
The camera-based Reader detects the
presence and identity of the Alere BinaxNOW
Influenza A & B Card 2 assay, analyzes the
Detection Format Same
intensity of the sample and control line and
reports the results (positive,negative, or invalid)
on a display screen.
Internally
Yes Same
Controlled?
Assay Result Qualitative Same
Time to Result 15 minutes Same
B. Differences
The Alere Reader user manual has been updated to identify minor changes to the software.
6. Design Control Activities Summary:
A risk assessment and hazard analysis of the device modification was conducted and documented
according to applicable ISO standards as well as an internal Alere Scarborough Inc.Risk Management
Process. The modification made to thesoftwaredoes not affect the assay procedure,and this change

[Table 1 on page 2]
	results are presumptive and should be
confirmed by cell culture or an FDA-cleared
influenza A and B molecular assay. Negative
test results do not preclude influenza viral
infection and should not be used as the sole
basis for treatment or other patient management
decisions. Alere BinaxNOW Influenza A & B
Card 2 must be read by the Alere Reader.
Performance characteristics for influenza A were
established during the 2015-2016 influenza
season when influenza A/H3N2 and A/H1N1
pandemic were the predominant influenza A
viruses in circulation. When other influenza A
viruses are emerging, performance
characteristics may vary.
If infection with a novel influenza A virus is
suspected based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening criteria recommended
by public health authorities, specimens should
be collected with appropriate infection control
precautions for novel virulent Influenza viruses
and sent to state or local health department for
testing. Viral culture should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is available
to receive and culture specimens.	
Sample Type	Nasopharyngeal and nasal swabs	Same
Assay Target	Nucleoprotein Antigen of Influenza A and B	Same
Instrumentation	Alere Reader	Same
Detection Format	The camera-based Reader detects the
presence and identity of the Alere BinaxNOW
Influenza A & B Card 2 assay, analyzes the
intensity of the sample and control line and
reports the results (positive,negative, or invalid)
on a display screen.	Same
Internally
Controlled?	Yes	Same
Assay Result	Qualitative	Same
Time to Result	15 minutes	Same

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3of 3
was not expected to impact the performance of the test or its safety and effectiveness. To confirm assay
performance was not negatively impacted, Alere Scarborough performed the following validation studies:
A. Design Specification Validation Testing
B. Analytical Study Data Reprocessing
C. Regression Testing of Clinical Study Data
Design Specification Validation Testing
Software design specifications were tested internally to verify the functionality of the requested changes
prior to verification studies. Pass/Fail criteria were set for each design input and the results were
summarized in the submission. There was one design specification that failed the criteria and cited as an
unresolved anomaly. The unresolved anomaly does not affect the performance of the device. All other
design specifications passed validation testing.
Analytical Study Data Reprocessing
Saved image files from various analytical studies performed in support of 510(k) clearance and annual
reactivity testing were reprocessed by the firmware that includes the new Robust Quant Algorithm. Eight
different analytical study data sets comprised of over 2000 individual tests were reprocessed and
compared to the results from the original studies. All documented changes to the original results following
reprocessing supported the intended functionality of the new algorithm by changing known false positive
results into negative results. There were no documented instances of the software modification creating
new false results in these studies.
Regression Testing of Clinical Study Data
Saved image files from the 2015-2016 Influenza season clinical study performed in support of 510(k)
clearance were reprocessed by the firmware that utilized the new Robust Quant Algorithm. Results of the
reprocessing were compared to the results from the original study. Two previously false positive samples
changed from Influenza A positive to Influenza A negative resulting in a slightly improved specificity for
the test running the new firmware. No other changes to Influenza A results were identified and no
changes to Influenza B results were observed after applying the new algorithm. The results of the clinical
study data regression testing do not raise any concerns regarding effects of the new firmware on the
performance of the device.
7. Truthful and Accurate Statement, a 510(k) Summary or Statement and the Indications for Use
Enclosure.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended use
for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the submitter’s description of the particular
modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified devices
demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the
design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the
device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.