
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(K): DEVICE MODIFICATION
OIR DECISION MEMORANDUM
510(k) Number: K181493
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device. (For a preamendments
device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device
has not changed.
Submitter states in the 510k Summary and Submission that modifications to the intended use and
labeling does not alter the test principle or product. Submitted changes to the device include;
· Labeling updated to removal of the Manufacturer-Specific False Positive Blood Culture
Bottle Warnings added as a result of recall.
· Labeling updated to expand the limitation on blood bottle contamination to address
discrepant results and require concordant FilmArray BCID Panel and Grams stain results
before patient reporting.
· Labeling updated to add two bioMerieux blood culture media bottle types (BacT/ALERT
FA Plus and BacT/ALERT FN Plus), validated by Interference testing, for use on the
FilmArray BCID Panel.
· Labeling updated to add new organism cross-reactivity identified thru post-market
surveillance, customer investigations, organism re-classifications (literature), and in-house
Exclusivity validation testing.
a. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics is shown in the
table below.
1

--- Page 2 ---
Predicate:
Modified Device:
FilmArray
Element FilmArray BCID Panel (with modified intended use and
BCID Panel
labeling)
(K160457)
The FilmArray Blood Culture Identification (BCID) Panel is a
qualitative multiplexed nucleic acid-based in vitro diagnostic
test intended for use with FilmArray systems. The FilmArray
BCID Panel is capable of simultaneous detection and
Indications for identification of multiple bacterial and yeast nucleic acids and
Same
Use select genetic determinants of antimicrobial resistance. The
FilmArray BCID Panel assay is performed directly on blood
culture samples identified as positive by a continuous
monitoring blood culture system. Results are intended to be
interpreted in conjunction with Gram stain results.
Enterococci, Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococci (including
specific differentiation of Staphylococcus aureus), Streptococci
(with specific differentiation of Streptococcus agalactiae,
Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Streptococcus pyogenes),
Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterobacteriaceae (including
Organisms specific differentiation of the Enterobacter cloacae complex,
Same
Detected Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Proteus, and Serratia marcescens), Haemophilus influenzae,
Neisseria meningitidis (encapsulated), Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida
krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and
resistance markers mecA, vanA, vanB, and bla (KPC)
KPC
Analyte DNA Same
Positive blood culture samples containing gram- positive or
Specimen Types Same
gram-negative bacteria and/or yeast.
Technological Nested multiplex PCR followed by high resolution melting
Same
Principles analysis to confirm identity of amplified product.
Single instrument FilmArray System, FilmArray 2.0 System, or
Instrumentation Same
FilmArray Torch System
Time to result About 1 hour Same
Automated test interpretation and report generation. User cannot
Test Interpretation Same
access raw data.
Reagent
Hydration and FilmArray Injection Vial-based loading procedure Same
Sample Loading
Sample
Preparation Sample Processing is automated in the FilmArray BCID pouch. Same
Method
Reagent Storage Reagents are stored at room temperature. Same
Two controls are included in each reagent pouch to control for
Controls Same
sample processing and both stages of PCR and melt analysis.
User Complexity Moderate Same
The FilmArray BCID Panel Instruction Booklet was updated to Remove False Positive Warnings
for Manufacturer-Specific Blood Culture Bottles
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
		Predicate:
	Modified Device:	
		FilmArray
Element	FilmArray BCID Panel (with modified intended use and	
		BCID Panel
	labeling)	
		(K160457)
		
Indications for
Use	The FilmArray Blood Culture Identification (BCID) Panel is a
qualitative multiplexed nucleic acid-based in vitro diagnostic
test intended for use with FilmArray systems. The FilmArray
BCID Panel is capable of simultaneous detection and
identification of multiple bacterial and yeast nucleic acids and
select genetic determinants of antimicrobial resistance. The
FilmArray BCID Panel assay is performed directly on blood
culture samples identified as positive by a continuous
monitoring blood culture system. Results are intended to be
interpreted in conjunction with Gram stain results.	Same
Organisms
Detected	Enterococci, Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococci (including
specific differentiation of Staphylococcus aureus), Streptococci
(with specific differentiation of Streptococcus agalactiae,
Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Streptococcus pyogenes),
Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterobacteriaceae (including
specific differentiation of the Enterobacter cloacae complex,
Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Proteus, and Serratia marcescens), Haemophilus influenzae,
Neisseria meningitidis (encapsulated), Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida
krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and
resistance markers mecA, vanA, vanB, and bla (KPC)
KPC	Same
Analyte	DNA	Same
Specimen Types	Positive blood culture samples containing gram- positive or
gram-negative bacteria and/or yeast.	Same
Technological
Principles	Nested multiplex PCR followed by high resolution melting
analysis to confirm identity of amplified product.	Same
Instrumentation	Single instrument FilmArray System, FilmArray 2.0 System, or
FilmArray Torch System	Same
Time to result	About 1 hour	Same
Test Interpretation	Automated test interpretation and report generation. User cannot
access raw data.	Same
Reagent
Hydration and
Sample Loading	FilmArray Injection Vial-based loading procedure	Same
Sample
Preparation
Method	Sample Processing is automated in the FilmArray BCID pouch.	Same
Reagent Storage	Reagents are stored at room temperature.	Same
Controls	Two controls are included in each reagent pouch to control for
sample processing and both stages of PCR and melt analysis.	Same
User Complexity	Moderate	Same

--- Page 3 ---
In 2014, BioFire reported an increased risk of false positive results (specifically for
Enterococcus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) when the FilmArray BCID Panel is used
with bioMérieux BacT/ALERT Standard Anaerobic (SN) blood culture bottles. The
source of these false positive results was identified, corrected, and removed. Therefore,
the limitation and similar warnings regarding this throughout the Instruction Booklet
were removed.
4. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
Risk analysis was performed to identify risks, their possible causes, and appropriate control
mechanisms. All risks were evaluated in the context of 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3) and FDA’s
guidance document ‘510(k) Device Modifications: Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a
Change to an Existing Device’. Upon analysis, the following risks were found:
· The assessment identified no new user risks for False Negative Results, False
Negative Results, or user Injuries.
· The firm identified two false-positive associated user risks.
o The firm determined the false positive risk was low based on testing of ‘false
bottle rings’ in automated blood culture instruments. The firm determined that
the false positive risk is mitigated through the updated labeling which states
that the FilmArray BCID Panel ‘results are intended to be interpreted in
conjunction with Gram stain results’.
o The firm determined that there is a risk that unpredictable and transient
contamination of blood culture bottle media with nucleic acids from pathogens
detected by the FilmArray BCID Panel affects assay performance and patient
results.The firm determined that the risk is mitigated through the updated
labeling which informs the user to not report conclusive findings unless
FilmArray BCID Panel results are concordant with the clinical profile (i.e.,
other laboratory, epidemiological, or clinical findings).
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
In order to address the increased false positive risks for Enterococcus and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa when the FilmArray BCID Panel is used with bioMérieux BacT/ALERT
Standard Anaerobic (SN) blood culture bottles, BioFire identified the source of
contamination (raw material, Gelatin Yeast PP90M DE), made corrections to the cleaning
processes, manufacturing process, raw material specifications, and replaced the
contaminating raw material with a similar but highly-filtered product.
Validation testing with three lots of the new raw material tested on the FilmArray BCID
Panel demonstrated negative results for all 30 tests across all targets. BioFire believes
that this test provides 90% confidence that SN bottles produced with the new PP90M MF
raw material and manufacturing improvements will provide acceptable performance (i.e.,
3

--- Page 4 ---
lower than 5% False Positive rate). Additionally, the firm reported a reduction in false-
positive related customer complaints related to Enterococcus and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa organism.
Interference testing was conducted to add two bioMerieux blood culture media bottle
types (BacT/ALERT FA Plus and BacT/ALERT FN Plus) for use with the FilmArray
BCID Panel. In the validation study, seven contrived blood culture samples (six positive
and one negative) were spiked with panel organism into (3) bottle types (BacT/ALERT
FA Plus and BacT/ALERT FN Plus and the control BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F) and
tested with the FilmArray BCID Panel. All 21 runs were valid with passed controls and
no errors or unexpected results demonstrating that the resin-containing BacT/ALERT FA
Plus and BacT/ALERT FN Plus bottle types do not interfere with the FilmArray BCID
Panel and results are equivalent to those obtained with the BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F
bottle.
Analytical Specificity and Crossreactivity testing was conducted to update labeling with
newly identified organism not previously found during the initial premarket analytical
and clinical studies. BioFire identified organism through thru post-market surveillance,
customer investigations, organism re-classifications (literature). In-house Exclusivity
testing was conducted on available organism using the protocol used to characterize the
initial FilmArray Blood Culture Identification Panel assays. In-house validation testing
and literature review identified multiple re-classifications and cross-reactant organisms to
the current FilmArray BCID Panel assay. All identified crossreactants were added to the
FilmArray BCID Panel Instruction Booklet Predicted and Observed Cross-Reactivity
with On-Panel or Off-Panel Organisms table as crossreactants and noted as limitations in
other appropriate locations in the FilmArray BCID Instruction Booklet. The new Cross-
Reactive Organisms are bolded in table below.
Predicted and Observed Cross-Reactivity with On-Panel or Off-Panel Organisms
FilmArray BCID Panel Result Cross-Reactive Organism(s)/Isolate(s)/Gene
Gram-positive Bacteria
Enterococcus Some coagulase-negative Staphylococci a
Gram-negative Bacteria
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii (ACB) complex
species:
Acinetobacter baumannii Acinetobacter calcoaceticus (ssp. anitratus) b
Acinetobacter pittii (formerly genomospecies 3) b
Acinetobacter seifertii b,c
Escherichia fergusonnii
Escherichia coli/
Shigella species (S. boydii, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, S.
Enterobacteriaceae
sonnei)
Enterobacter cloacae complex/
Pantoea (Enterobacter) agglomerans c
Enterbacteraiaceae
Klebsiella oxytoca/
Klebsiella michiganensisd
Enterobacteriaceae
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
	FilmArray BCID Panel Result			Cross-Reactive Organism(s)/Isolate(s)/Gene	
	Gram-positive Bacteria				
Enterococcus			Some coagulase-negative Staphylococci a		
	Gram-negative Bacteria				
Acinetobacter baumannii			Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii (ACB) complex
species:
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus (ssp. anitratus) b
Acinetobacter pittii (formerly genomospecies 3) b
Acinetobacter seifertii b,c		
Escherichia coli/
Enterobacteriaceae			Escherichia fergusonnii
Shigella species (S. boydii, S. dysenteriae, S. flexneri, S.
sonnei)		
Enterobacter cloacae complex/
Enterbacteraiaceae			Pantoea (Enterobacter) agglomerans c		
Klebsiella oxytoca/
Enterobacteriaceae			Klebsiella michiganensisd		

--- Page 5 ---
FilmArray BCID Panel Result Cross-Reactive Organism(s)/Isolate(s)/Gene
Klebsiella quasipneumoniaee
Klebsiella pneumoniae/ Klebsiella variicola (aka Klebsiella pneumoniae variant 342)
Enterobacteriaceae Enterobacter aerogenes (reclassified as Klebsiella aerogenes)
Raoultella ornithinolytica f
Serratia species (S. entomophila g, S. ficaria, S. odorifera g, and
S. rubidaea g)
Raoultella ornithinolytica f
Serratia marcescens/ Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 25619) h
Enterobacteriaceae Some Pseudomonas species (e.g. P. putida, P. poae, and P.
veronii) i
Some Pantoea species (e.g. P. calida, P. gavinia, and P.
septica) i
Some Haemophilus species (H. haemolyticus, H. sputorum,
Haemophilus influenzae
and H. influenzae biotype IV (H. quentini)) j
Listeria monocytogenes Listeria innocua c
Yeast
Candida orthopsilosis (Group III Candida parapsilosis) i
Candida parapsilosis
Candida multigemmis c
Some Streptococcus species(S. mitis, S. pneumoniae, S.
Candida krusei dysgalactiae, S. equi, S. oralis, S. parauberis, S. pyogenes, S.
salivarious, and S. thermophilus) i
Antimicrobial Resistance Genes
vanA/B vanM m
a Cross-reactivity was not observed in analytical specificity testing, but is predicted by in silico analysis to occur only
with some species (i.e., S. epidermidis, S. capitis and S. haemolyticus) when present in a sample at very high levels.
The predicted cross-reactivity was observed infrequently in pre-analytical studies and the clinical evaluation
(estimated occurrence of ~0.25% of all Staphylococcus positive patient samples).
bAcinetobacter calcoaceticus-baumannii (ACB) complex species are often mis-identified as A. baumannii by
automated and manual microbial identification methods.
c Detection was not observed in analytical specificity testing, but testing and/or sequence analysis predicts that
detection due to cross-reactivity may be possible at higher concentrations.
d Identified as a new species that is closely related to K. oxytoca.
e Identified as a new species (with subspecies) that is closely related to K. pneumoniae.
f Cross-reactivity was not observed when ATCC 31898 was tested at a concentration ~1x108 CFU/mL, but cross-
reactivity was observed in clinical positive blood cultures containing R. ornithinolytica.
g Cross-reactivity was observed only at high organism concentration (≥109 CFU/mL); rare human pathogens.
h No cross-reactivity was observed with five other Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates tested at ≥108 CFU/mL.
i Primarily environmental microorganisms, may cause rare opportunistic infections in humans. The potential for
cross-reactivity was identified in contrived samples and/or clinical blood culture specimens.
j Haemophilus spp. that are infrequently isolated from human blood culture and are difficult to distinguish from H.
influenzae by automated and manual microbial identification methods. The potential for cross-reactivity with H.
sputorum and H. quentini was identified in clinical blood culture specimens.
k Candida orthopsilosis is misidentified as C. parapsilosis by automated and manual microbial identification
methods.
l Cross-reactivity was not observed in analytical specificity testing, but inefficient cross-reactivity with high levels of
select streptococci (S. mitis and S. pneumoniae) has been identified via investigation of false results in contrived
samples. In silico analysis also predicts potential cross-reactivity with S. dysgalactiae, S. equi, S. oralis, S.
parauberis, S. pyogenes, S. salivarius, and S. thermophilus.
m Identified from a vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium isolated in Asia, 2011; vanB resistance phenotype.
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
	FilmArray BCID Panel Result			Cross-Reactive Organism(s)/Isolate(s)/Gene	
Klebsiella pneumoniae/
Enterobacteriaceae			Klebsiella quasipneumoniaee
Klebsiella variicola (aka Klebsiella pneumoniae variant 342)
Enterobacter aerogenes (reclassified as Klebsiella aerogenes)
Raoultella ornithinolytica f		
Serratia marcescens/
Enterobacteriaceae			Serratia species (S. entomophila g, S. ficaria, S. odorifera g, and
S. rubidaea g)
Raoultella ornithinolytica f
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 25619) h
Some Pseudomonas species (e.g. P. putida, P. poae, and P.
veronii) i
Some Pantoea species (e.g. P. calida, P. gavinia, and P.
septica) i		
Haemophilus influenzae			Some Haemophilus species (H. haemolyticus, H. sputorum,
and H. influenzae biotype IV (H. quentini)) j		
Listeria monocytogenes			Listeria innocua c		
	Yeast				
Candida parapsilosis			Candida orthopsilosis (Group III Candida parapsilosis) i
Candida multigemmis c		
Candida krusei			Some Streptococcus species(S. mitis, S. pneumoniae, S.
dysgalactiae, S. equi, S. oralis, S. parauberis, S. pyogenes, S.
salivarious, and S. thermophilus) i		
	Antimicrobial Resistance Genes				
vanA/B			vanM m		

--- Page 6 ---
c) Declaration of Conformity to Design Controls
A “Declaration of Conformity” statement was submitted for the BioFire Diagnostics,
LLC manufacturing facility. It was signed by the Vice President, Regulated Products and
Clinical Affairs, and the Director of Quality Assurance. The statements indicate that:
· “To the best of my knowledge, the verification activities, as required for the risk
analysis, for the modification were performed by the designated individual(s) and
the results demonstrated that the predetermined acceptance criteria were met.”
· “The manufacturing facility, BioFire Diagnostics, LLC, is in conformance with
the design control requirements
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
applicant’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The applicant has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be
determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment)
device.
6