
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(K): DEVICE MODIFICATION
OIR DECISION MEMORANDUM
510(k) Number: K181436
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device. (For a preamendment
device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
OSOM Mono Test
510(k) number: K972231
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S):
This change was for a modification of the OSOM Mono Test whereby the current capillary tube,
which includes a Mylar wrapped glass tube and a dry natural rubber latex bulb, will be replaced
by the Microsafe capillary tube. Both the current capillary tube and the Microsafe capillary tube
collect 50 µL of fingertip whole blood and deliver the blood to the sample Test Tube. No changes
to the chemistry of the assay have been made as the unmodified and modified devices are identical
in assay formulation.
The FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not
changed.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and assay information:
1

--- Page 2 ---
Similarities
Proposed: Predicate:
SD OSOM Mono Test SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231
Intended Use Same The OSOM Mono Test is intended for
the qualitative detection of infectious
mononucleosis heterophile antibodies
in serum, plasma or whole blood as an
aid in the diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis.
Qualitative Same Yes
Read Results Same 5 minutes
Test Principle Same Immunochromatographic Device
Format Same Lateral Flow
Antibodies Used Same Bovine erythrocyte extract
Specimen Types Same Serum, Plasma and whole blood
Sample Volume Same 50-55 µL
Read Result Time Same 5 minutes
External Controls Same Mono Positive and Negative Controls
provided in the kit.
Internal procedural control
Differences
Proposed: Predicate:
SD OSOM Mono Test SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231
Fingertip whole Microsafe is a one‐piece single use Capillary Tubes (Mylar wrapped glass
blood collection plastic capillary pipette tubes) with 1 Capillary Bulb (contains
device dry natural rubber)
Labeling - IFU Proposed: Predicate:
Kit Contents and storage: Kit Contents and storage:
25 Capillary Pipettes 25 Capillary Tubes with 1 Capillary
Note: Extra components (tubes, Bulb
pipettes, capillary pipettes) have Note: Extra components (tubes,
been provided for your pipettes, capillary tubes, capillary
convenience. bulb) have been provided for your
convenience.
Proposed: WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Warning
For hazards and precautions, refer to H317: May cause an allergic skin
the safety data sheet. reaction.
• Caution: Federal Law restricts sale P280: Wear protective
of this device to or on the order of a gloves/protective clothing/eye
licensed practitioner. protection/face protection.
• For in-vitro diagnostic use only. • For in-vitro diagnostic use only.
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Proposed:	Predicate:
	SD OSOM Mono Test	SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231
Intended Use	Same	The OSOM Mono Test is intended for
the qualitative detection of infectious
mononucleosis heterophile antibodies
in serum, plasma or whole blood as an
aid in the diagnosis of infectious
mononucleosis.
Qualitative	Same	Yes
Read Results	Same	5 minutes
Test Principle	Same	Immunochromatographic Device
Format	Same	Lateral Flow
Antibodies Used	Same	Bovine erythrocyte extract
Specimen Types	Same	Serum, Plasma and whole blood
Sample Volume	Same	50-55 µL
Read Result Time	Same	5 minutes
External Controls	Same	Mono Positive and Negative Controls
provided in the kit.
Internal procedural control

[Table 2 on page 2]
		Proposed:			Predicate:	
		SD OSOM Mono Test			SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231	
Fingertip whole
blood collection
device	Microsafe is a one‐piece single use
plastic capillary pipette			Capillary Tubes (Mylar wrapped glass
tubes) with 1 Capillary Bulb (contains
dry natural rubber)		
Labeling - IFU	Proposed:
Kit Contents and storage:
25 Capillary Pipettes
Note: Extra components (tubes,
pipettes, capillary pipettes) have
been provided for your
convenience.			Predicate:
Kit Contents and storage:
25 Capillary Tubes with 1 Capillary
Bulb
Note: Extra components (tubes,
pipettes, capillary tubes, capillary
bulb) have been provided for your
convenience.		
	Proposed:
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
For hazards and precautions, refer to
the safety data sheet.
• Caution: Federal Law restricts sale
of this device to or on the order of a
licensed practitioner.
• For in-vitro diagnostic use only.			WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
Warning
H317: May cause an allergic skin
reaction.
P280: Wear protective
gloves/protective clothing/eye
protection/face protection.
• For in-vitro diagnostic use only.		

--- Page 3 ---
Proposed: Predicate:
SD OSOM Mono Test SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231
• Follow your laboratory safety • Follow your laboratory safety
guidelines in the collection, handling, guidelines in the collection, handling,
storage and disposal of patient storage and disposal of patient
specimens and all items exposed to specimens and all items exposed to
patient specimens. patient specimens.
• The Diluent and Controls contain • The Diluent and Controls contain
sodium azide which may react with sodium azide which may react with
lead or copper plumbing to form lead or copper plumbing to form
potentially explosive metal azide. For potentially explosive metal azide. For
sites permitted to dispose of material sites permitted to dispose of material
down a sink: large quantities of water down a sink: large quantities of water
must be used to flush discarded must be used to flush discarded
control material down a sink. control material down a sink.
• Do not interchange or mix • The Capillary Bulb contains dry
components from different kit lots. natural rubber.
• Do not interchange or mix
components from different kit lots.
Proposed: Specimen Collection and
Specimen Collection and Preparation:
Preparation: Fingertip Whole Blood
Fingertip Whole Blood Hold the capillary tube horizontally
Hold the capillary pipette horizontally, while collecting the sample. Holding
and touch the tip of the pipette to the the capillary tube near the red circle,
drop of blood on the patient’s finger touch the other end of the capillary
until it fills completely. tube to the drop of blood on the
Note: Filling is automatic; never patient’s finger. Fill the capillary tube
squeeze the pipette bulb while completely. Place the small end of the
collecting sample. black bulb onto the capillary tube.
Place your fingertip over the opening
in the bulb. Squeeze the bulb to
dispense the whole blood sample into
the test tube.
Picture of
micropipette
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
		Proposed:			Predicate:	
		SD OSOM Mono Test			SD OSOM Mono Test, K972231	
	• Follow your laboratory safety
guidelines in the collection, handling,
storage and disposal of patient
specimens and all items exposed to
patient specimens.
• The Diluent and Controls contain
sodium azide which may react with
lead or copper plumbing to form
potentially explosive metal azide. For
sites permitted to dispose of material
down a sink: large quantities of water
must be used to flush discarded
control material down a sink.
• Do not interchange or mix
components from different kit lots.			• Follow your laboratory safety
guidelines in the collection, handling,
storage and disposal of patient
specimens and all items exposed to
patient specimens.
• The Diluent and Controls contain
sodium azide which may react with
lead or copper plumbing to form
potentially explosive metal azide. For
sites permitted to dispose of material
down a sink: large quantities of water
must be used to flush discarded
control material down a sink.
• The Capillary Bulb contains dry
natural rubber.
• Do not interchange or mix
components from different kit lots.		
	Proposed:
Specimen Collection and
Preparation:
Fingertip Whole Blood
Hold the capillary pipette horizontally,
and touch the tip of the pipette to the
drop of blood on the patient’s finger
until it fills completely.
Note: Filling is automatic; never
squeeze the pipette bulb while
collecting sample.			Specimen Collection and
Preparation:
Fingertip Whole Blood
Hold the capillary tube horizontally
while collecting the sample. Holding
the capillary tube near the red circle,
touch the other end of the capillary
tube to the drop of blood on the
patient’s finger. Fill the capillary tube
completely. Place the small end of the
black bulb onto the capillary tube.
Place your fingertip over the opening
in the bulb. Squeeze the bulb to
dispense the whole blood sample into
the test tube.		
Picture of
micropipette						

--- Page 4 ---
5. A Design Control Activities Summary:
A risk assessment of the modified Mono Test was conducted and documented according to the
firm’s Quality Systems requirements. This assessment included a standard Failure Mode and
Effects Analysis (FMEA) which concluded that there is minimal impact on Clinical Studies and
that the only risk was to Non-Clinical Performance. Two studies were carried out to demonstrate
that there was no impact on the results with the modified assay – Volume Capability Study and
Compatibility Study.
i. Volume Capability Study: The volume of deionized water taken up by the Micrsafe Tubes
when following the package insert was measured using three lots of Microsafe Tubes. The
average volume within and across lots was between 50 µL and 55 µL and met the acceptance
criteria.
ii. Compatibility Study: Finger-stick samples from three different seronegative donors were
evaluated across the three lots of Microsafe Tubes. No deleterious effect on the assay was
observed and the results met the acceptance criteria.
A third study (Time to Dispense) was carried out to determine how long a finger-stick sample
could be retained in a MicroSafe Tube and still be dispensed. The study was for information only.
iii. Finger-stick whole blood samples were collected and dispensed after 30, 60, and 120 seconds.
Three lots of Microsafe Tubes were evaluated. A finger-stick sample could be left in the
Microsafe Tube for 120 seconds with no deleterious effect on dispensing a specimen.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the applicant’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The applicant has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
4