
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT COMBINATION TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
K182405
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Device
C. Measurand:
Glucose in interstitial fluid
D. Type of Test:
Quantitiative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
E. Applicant:
Dexcom, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section: 21 CFR 862.1355
2. Classification: Class II
3. Product code: QDL
4. Panel: Chemistry (75)
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
See indications for use.
1

--- Page 2 ---
2. Indication(s) for use:
The Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (Dexcom Pro Q System) is a
factory calibrated continuous glucose recording device indicated for the retrospective
discovery, analysis and interpretation of glycemic variability in persons age 2 and older
under the supervision of a healthcare professional. The Dexcom Pro Q System collects
and processes data for aiding in the management of a disease or condition related to
glycemic control.
Interpretation of the data recorded by the Dexcom Pro Q System results should be made
only by a qualified healthcare professional based on glucose trends and several sequential
readings over time. The Dexcom Pro Q System aids in detecting glucose excursions
facilitating care plan adjustments. The Dexcom Pro Q System is also intended to interface
with digitally connected devices.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
• This device is for prescription use only. Results should be interpreted only by
qualified health care professionals.
• The components of the Dexcom Pro Q System (sensor and transmitter) must be
removed prior to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT)
scan, or high frequency electrical (diathermy) treatment. The Dexcom Pro Q System
has not been tested in those situations.
• This device is not intended for pregnant women, people on dialysis, or critically ill
patients.
• Although standard dosing of acetaminophen (1000 mg per every 6 hours) does not
appear to cause significant bias, higher supra-therapeutic levels of acetaminophen
have shown significant positive bias.
• Sensor placement is important to ensure system performance. Users should choose a
site:
o At least 3 inches from insulin pump infusion set or injection site or previous
CGM insertion site.
o Away from irritated skin, tattoos, near waistband, bones, or scarring.
o Unlikely to be bumped, pushed or laid on while sleeping.
• Store sensors only between 36° F and 86° F. Do not store sensors in the freezer.
4. Special instrument requirements:
Not applicable.
I. Device Description:
The Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) System is a glucose recording
device that measures and logs glucose readings at five-minute intervals for up to ten days.
The Pro Q System consists of a sensor and a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) transmitter. The
sensor is a small, flexible wire inserted into the subcutaneous tissue where it converts glucose
into electrical current. The transmitter, which is connected to the sensor and worn on the
body, samples the electrical current produced by the senor and converts these measurements
2

--- Page 3 ---
into glucose readings using an onboard algorithm. The system does not have a way to display
glucose values in real-time and cannot be authorized to do so. A user must use an authorized
extraction device after the sensor session has ended to extract and view data collected by the
Pro Q Transmitter.
Pro Q CGM SENSOR
The sensor component is a sterile device that consists of the sensor applicator,
plastic base (“transmitter holder”), and sensor probe. The applicator is a single use,
disposable unit that contains an introducer needle holding the sensor probe. The applicator
deploys the needle and inserts the sensor under the skin. The needle is retracted back into the
applicator after insertion. The sensor probe continuously measures glucose concentration in
interstitial fluid and can be worn for up to 10 days.
The sensor may be worn in the abdomen for adults, and both the abdomen and buttock for
children ages 2-17 years old. The sensor is identical to the predicate G6 sensor.
Pro Q CGM TRANSMITTER
The Pro Q CGM Transmitter is a miniature radio transmitter that incorporates data
processing functionality. The transmitter contains a Bluetooth radio transceiver to enable
transmittance of stored data once the sensor session has ended. The transmitter attaches to the
sensor and is not reusable. The transmitter hardware is unchanged from the predicate G6
transmitter, with the exception of a firmware (see above). An authorized extraction device
must be used to extract and view data collected by the Pro Q Transmitter.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s): G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s): DEN170088
3. Comparison with predicate:
The Dexcom Pro Q System is largely identical to the predicate device with the exception
of aspects related to data storage and display; the device stores glucose data for the entire
sensor wear period and data are intended for retrospective analysis by a healthcare
provider using an authorized extraction device; by contrast, the predicate device includes
a display that provides users with glucose information in real-time. The Dexcom Pro Q
System includes only a sensor and transmitter, and patients must see their healthcare
provider for insertion and removal of the sensor.
Similarities
Item Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring System Glucose Monitoring
(Candidate) System (Predicate)
Intended Use Intended to automatically Same
measure glucose in bodily
3

[Table 1 on page 3]
Similarities						
Item		Dexcom Pro Q Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring System			Glucose Monitoring	
		(Candidate)			System (Predicate)	
Intended Use	Intended to automatically
measure glucose in bodily			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
Similarities
Item Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring System Glucose Monitoring
(Candidate) System (Predicate)
fluids continuously or
frequently for a specified period
of time. iCGM systems are
designed to reliably and
securely transmit glucose
measurement data to digitally
connected devices and are
intended to be used alone or in
conjunction with these digitally
connected medical devices for
the purpose of managing a
disease or condition related to
glycemic control.
Principle of Operation Amperometric measurement of Same
current proportional to glucose
concentration in interstitial
fluid via glucose oxidase
chemical reaction
Detection Method Amperometric electrochemical Same
Sample Type Interstitial fluid Same
Test Range 40-400 mg/dL Same
Enzyme Glucose oxidase Same
Glucose reading update Autonomously every 5 minutes Same
interval
Wireless Bluetooth Core Specification Same
communications v4.0
protocol
Anatomical sensor Abdomen (age 2+ years) or Same
wear locations upper buttocks (age 2-17 years)
Sensor dimensions 45º insertion angle, 8mm depth, Same
0.2mm diameter
Sensor warm up time 2 hours Same
Sensor life Up to 10 days (automatic Same
sensor shutoff)
Operational conditions Ambient Temperature: 50ºF – Same
107.6ºF
Humidity: 10%-95% RH
Altitude: -1300 feet to 13,800
feet
Transmitter power Lithium manganese dioxide Same
supply battery (not
replaceable or rechargeable)
Communications range 20 feet Same
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities						
Item		Dexcom Pro Q Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring System			Glucose Monitoring	
		(Candidate)			System (Predicate)	
	fluids continuously or
frequently for a specified period
of time. iCGM systems are
designed to reliably and
securely transmit glucose
measurement data to digitally
connected devices and are
intended to be used alone or in
conjunction with these digitally
connected medical devices for
the purpose of managing a
disease or condition related to
glycemic control.					
Principle of Operation	Amperometric measurement of
current proportional to glucose
concentration in interstitial
fluid via glucose oxidase
chemical reaction			Same		
Detection Method	Amperometric electrochemical			Same		
Sample Type	Interstitial fluid			Same		
Test Range	40-400 mg/dL			Same		
Enzyme	Glucose oxidase			Same		
Glucose reading update
interval	Autonomously every 5 minutes			Same		
Wireless
communications
protocol	Bluetooth Core Specification
v4.0			Same		
						
Anatomical sensor
wear locations	Abdomen (age 2+ years) or
upper buttocks (age 2-17 years)			Same		
Sensor dimensions	45º insertion angle, 8mm depth,
0.2mm diameter			Same		
Sensor warm up time	2 hours			Same		
Sensor life	Up to 10 days (automatic
sensor shutoff)			Same		
Operational conditions	Ambient Temperature: 50ºF –
107.6ºF
Humidity: 10%-95% RH
Altitude: -1300 feet to 13,800
feet			Same		
Transmitter power
supply	Lithium manganese dioxide
battery (not
replaceable or rechargeable)			Same		
Communications range	20 feet			Same		

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Item Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System (Candidate) System (Predicate)
Application Retrospective discovery, Real-time glucose
analysis and interpretation monitoring
of glucose values
System Components Sensor/Applicator and Sensor/Applicator,
Transmitter Transmitter, Display
Device (Mobile App and
Receiver)
Data Presentation Real-Time Data: no real Real-Time Data: users are
time data are presented to presented with real-time
users. glucose values and glucose
rate of change.
Historical Glucose Data:
The glucose data collected Historical Glucose Data:
throughout the entire wear- Users can view their
period is presented to the previous three, six, twelve,
user and healthcare or twenty-four hours of
professional after the glucose data.
sensor session has ended.
Glucose Value Every 5 minutes (glucose Every 5 minutes (glucose
Transmission Interval values are collected every values are collected and
30 seconds and stored for sent to the display device)
later data extraction and
analysis)
Features Analysis with a healthcare Real time data and connect
professional: Extraction via to Dexcom Share app:
authorized tool
User Interaction The system includes an The system includes an
automatic applicator for automatic applicator for
sensor insertion. sensor insertion.
The system does not During system start-up and
include a display device or prior to the start of each
require any user input to sensor session, the system
start a session or calibrate requires the user to input
the system. the sensor code into the
display device for
calibration. User may also
choose to calibrate using
blood glucose values.
The user can enter an
optional calibration at any
time, even after the sensor
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Differences						
Item		Dexcom Pro Q Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System (Candidate)			System (Predicate)	
Application	Retrospective discovery,
analysis and interpretation
of glucose values			Real-time glucose
monitoring		
System Components	Sensor/Applicator and
Transmitter			Sensor/Applicator,
Transmitter, Display
Device (Mobile App and
Receiver)		
Data Presentation	Real-Time Data: no real
time data are presented to
users.
Historical Glucose Data:
The glucose data collected
throughout the entire wear-
period is presented to the
user and healthcare
professional after the
sensor session has ended.			Real-Time Data: users are
presented with real-time
glucose values and glucose
rate of change.
Historical Glucose Data:
Users can view their
previous three, six, twelve,
or twenty-four hours of
glucose data.		
Glucose Value
Transmission Interval	Every 5 minutes (glucose
values are collected every
30 seconds and stored for
later data extraction and
analysis)			Every 5 minutes (glucose
values are collected and
sent to the display device)		
Features	Analysis with a healthcare
professional: Extraction via
authorized tool			Real time data and connect
to Dexcom Share app:		
User Interaction	The system includes an
automatic applicator for
sensor insertion.
The system does not
include a display device or
require any user input to
start a session or calibrate
the system.			The system includes an
automatic applicator for
sensor insertion.
During system start-up and
prior to the start of each
sensor session, the system
requires the user to input
the sensor code into the
display device for
calibration. User may also
choose to calibrate using
blood glucose values.
The user can enter an
optional calibration at any
time, even after the sensor		

--- Page 6 ---
Differences
Item Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System (Candidate) System (Predicate)
code has been entered.
Compatibility with Compatible authorized Compatible with iPhone
intended environments extraction device 5S through iPhone X,
Samsung Note 5, Note 8,
Galaxy S6-S9, J3, Google
Pixel, LG G5-G6
Compatible with Android
OS version 7.0 and above,
and iOS version 10.3.2 and
above
Compatible with
authorized interoperable
devices, including
automated insulin delivery
devices.
Calibration Factory calibrated (no user Factory calibrated (user
calibration code necessary), enters calibration code)
no user calibration possible and optional user
calibration
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
ISO 13485:2003; Medical Devices-Quality management systems-Requirements for
regulatory purposes
ISO 14971:2012; Medical devices – Applications of risk management to medical devices
IEC 62304, Ed. 1.1:2015; Medical Device Software – Software Lifecycle Processes
(2006+AMD1:2015)
IEC 62366 Ed. 1.1:2014; Medical Devices – Application of usability engineering to medical
devices, Edition 1.1 (2014)
IEC 60601-1:2005; Medical Electrical Equipment – Part 1: Requirements for basic safety and
essential performance
ISO 15223-1:2012; Medical devices – Symbols to be used with medical device labels,
labeling and information to be supplied – Part 1: General requirements
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(k)s, dated
August 2005
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Differences						
Item		Dexcom Pro Q Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System (Candidate)			System (Predicate)	
				code has been entered.		
Compatibility with
intended environments	Compatible authorized
extraction device			Compatible with iPhone
5S through iPhone X,
Samsung Note 5, Note 8,
Galaxy S6-S9, J3, Google
Pixel, LG G5-G6
Compatible with Android
OS version 7.0 and above,
and iOS version 10.3.2 and
above
Compatible with
authorized interoperable
devices, including
automated insulin delivery
devices.		
Calibration	Factory calibrated (no user
calibration code necessary),
no user calibration possible			Factory calibrated (user
enters calibration code)
and optional user
calibration		

--- Page 7 ---
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions
for Software Contained in Medical Devices, dated May 11, 2005
General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, dated
January 11, 2002
Guidance for Industry, FDA Reviewers and Compliance on Off-the-Shelf Software Use in
Medical Devices, dated September 9, 1999
Guidance for Industry, Cybersecurity for Networked Medical Devices Containing Off-the-
Shelf Software, dated January 14, 2005
Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices,
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff, dated October 2, 2014
Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices –Guidance for
Industry and FDA Staff, dated February 3, 2016
Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff Use of Symbols on Labels and in Labeling of In Vitro
Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional Use, dated November 30, 2004
L. Test Principle:
The Dexcom Pro Q System detects glucose levels from the fluid just beneath the skin
(interstitial fluid). The sensor probe continuously measures glucose concentration in the
interstitial fluid via an enzymatic electrochemical reaction using glucose oxidase. The
enzyme, glucose oxidase, catalyzes the oxidation of glucose and produces hydrogen
peroxide. The production of hydrogen peroxide generates an electrical current that is
proportionate to the interstitial glucose concentration. The transmitter converts the signal
using an algorithm to a glucose value read in mg/dL, which is recorded and stored on the
transmitter until the data is extracted by a qualified healthcare professional for interpretation
and use.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The Pro Q CGM uses the same sensor, transmitter, and algorithm as the predicate
device, the Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System. Therefore,
performance was evaluated under DEN170088. Please see the decision summary for
the Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (DEN170088)
b. Linearity/assay reportable range:
The reportable range for the Pro Q CGM is 40 to 400 mg/dL. Data supporting this
claimed measurement range was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
7

--- Page 8 ---
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
The Pro Q CGM sensor has a storage shelf-life of 12 months and testing is on-going.
Shelf life was evaluated at 32⁰-86⁰ F and 10-90% relative humidity.
The Pro Q Transmitter has sufficient battery life to function for 3 months as intended
following its maximum storage time of 8 months. Shelf life was evaluated at 32⁰-
113⁰ F and 10-95% relative humidity.
d. Detection limit:
If a glucose measurement is less than 40 mg/dL, the result is displayed by the system
as ‘Lo’. If a glucose measurement exceeds 400 mg/dL, result is displayed as ‘Hi’.
Data supporting this claimed measurement range was generated in the clinical study
described in Section L(3) below. Data supporting this was reviewed under
DEN170088. Please see the decision summary for DEN170088.
e. Analytical specificity:
Data supporting the analytical specificity was reviewed under DEN170088. Please
see the decision summary for DEN170088.
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable.
2. Comparison studies:
a. Method comparison with predicate device:
Not applicable.
b. Matrix comparison:
Not applicable. Interstitial fluid is the only indicated matrix.
3. Clinical studies:
Data supporting clinical studies was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
4. Expected values:
Not applicable.
N. Instrument Name:
Dexcom Pro Q Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
8

--- Page 9 ---
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ___X____ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ___X____ or No ________
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ___X___ or No ________
1. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable
2. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable
5. Calibration:
Not applicable (factory calibrated).
6. Quality Control:
Not applicable.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Biocompatibility:
Data supporting biocompatibility was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the decision
summary for DEN170088.
Sterility:
Data supporting sterility was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the decision summary
for DEN170088.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Mechanical Engineering:
The physical dimensions and hardware are identical to the predicate device. Data supporting
the mechanical engineering was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the decision
summary for DEN170088.
Electromagnetic Compatibility:
Data supporting electrocompatibility testing was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
Electrical Safety:
Data supporting electrical safety was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the decision
summary for DEN170088.
Environmental Testing:
Data supporting environmental testing was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
Shelf-Life Stability:
Data supporting the shelf life stability was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
Packaging Integrity/Shipping Integrity:
Packaging and shipping specifications are the same as the predicate. Data supporting the
package and shipping integrity was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the decision
summary for DEN170088.
Interoperability:
A plan and approach for interoperability were provided according to the FDA Guidance
“Design Considerations and Pre-market Submission Recommendations for Interoperable
Medical Devices - Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff” and
determined to be adequate to support and clearly specify expectations, requirements, and
interface specifications to potential interoperable devices. In addition, their plan covered
their approach to working with connected device companies regarding contractual
approaches, interfaces for data communication and exchange, and post-market reporting
procedures and responsibilities (e.g., who is responsible for investigating and reporting
complaints, malfunctions, and adverse events). The device cannot be authorized for real-
time data display. In addition, after data extraction, glucose data collected by the Dexcom
Pro Q System must pass through Dexcom’s cloud-based data infrastructure before being
made available for display or analysis. Access to the data is controlled by Dexcom, through
user credentials.
Cyber Security:
The following information was provided for the device:
· Risk Management
o A model describing the assets, threats, vulnerabilities, and controls related to
the device system was provided reviewed. Cyber security parameters were
identified for each asset and included the transmitter, receiver, and smart
device applications. Traceability was provided and adequate. Risk
management was acceptable.
10

--- Page 11 ---
· Planning for Continuing Support
o A plan for continuing to keep the device secure was provided and found to be
complete and adequate.
· Plan for Malware-Free Shipping
o A plan to ensure the device is shipped without Malware was provided and
found to be complete and adequate.
Contact Resistance:
Data supporting the contact resistance was reviewed under DEN170088. Please see the
decision summary for DEN170088.
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Parts 801 and 809, as
applicable.
R. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
11