
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(K): DEVICE MODIFICATION
OIR DECISION SUMMARY
510(k) Number: __k182286___
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device: k132966, GluNEO
Lite Blood Glucose Monitoring System (For a preamendments device, a statement to this effect
has been provided.)
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
This change was for:
1) Addition of Bluetooth Low Energy capability
2) Change in meter housing colors from white and gray to black
3) Change in device name from GluNEO Lite Blood Glucose Monitoring System to Oh’Care
Lite Smart Blood Glucose Monitoring System
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, physical characteristics, and specifications.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the applicant’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The applicant has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.
The Oh’Care Lite Smart Blood Glucose Monitoring System is intended for single patient home use.
Disinfection efficacy studies were previously conducted under k103021 on materials comprising the
1

--- Page 2 ---
meter housing and demonstrated complete inactiviation of hepatitis B Virus (HBV) with Metrex
CaviWipes disinfecting towelettes (EPA Reg# 46781-8). Robustness studies were performed by the
sponsor demonstrating that there was no change in performance or in the external materials of the
meter after 10,950 cleaning and disinfection cycles with the CaviWipes towelettes. The studies
support single-patient use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning
and disinfection procedures.
2