
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY TEMPLATE
A. 510(k) Number:
k183206
B. Purpose for Submission:
Modification to the CGM Transmitter of the predicate device
C. Manufacturer and Instrument Name:
Dexcom, Inc., Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
D. Type of Test or Tests Performed:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
E. System Descriptions:
1. DeviceDescription:
The Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System is an integrated continuous
glucose monitoring system (iCGM) that provides continuous glucose readings which are
updated every 5 minutes providing glucose levels, trends, and alerts. The System consists
of three main components: a sensor, a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) transmitter and a
BLE enabled display device (receiver and/or mobile application). The user can view
glucose data on the receiver or on the G6 CGM App (i.e., a mobile medical application)
running on a compatible mobile device, or on both simultaneously.
The system provides alerts and alarms which warn the user of low or impending low and
high or impending high glucose levels. The user may determine their treatment based on
the glucose values provided by the system.
G6 CGM SENSOR
The sensor component is a sterile device that consists of the sensor applicator, plastic
base (“transmitter holder”), and sensor probe. The applicator is a single use, disposable
unit that contains an introducer needle holding the sensor probe. The applicator deploys
the needle and inserts the sensor under the skin. The needle is retracted back into the
applicator after insertion. The sensor probe continuously measures glucose concentration
in interstitial fluid and can be worn for up to 10 days.
1

--- Page 2 ---
The sensor may be worn in the abdomen for adults, and both the abdomen and buttock
for children ages 2-17 years old. The sensor comes with a calibration code that the user
enters into the system upon initializing a new sensor. Once the code is applied, the user
does not need to calibrate the system throughout the entirety of the sensor lifetime, which
is 10 days. However, the user has the option to manually calibrate the system using self-
measurements from a blood glucose meter in addition to entering the calibration code.
Alternatively, if the user chooses not to enter the calibration code, he or she must
manually calibrate the sensor by entering two fingerstick blood glucose values during
start up and every 24 hours thereafter.
G6 CGM TRANSMITTER
The G6 CGM Transmitter is a miniature radio transmitter that incorporates data
processing functionality. The transmitter contains a Bluetooth radio transceiver for
communication with a compatible display device (i.e., receiver and/or smart device).
The transmitter attaches to the sensor and can be re-used for multiple sensing sessions
up to three months.
G6 CGM RECEIVER
The G6 CGM Receiver is small hand-held device that wirelessly receives glucose
information from the transmitter every five minutes and includes a touchscreen display.
The 5 receiver displays the current glucose reading and glucose trends to the user. It
alerts the user when glucose levels are outside of a target zone and when other important
system conditions occur.
DEXCOM G6 System MOBILE APP
The G6 CGM App for iOS and G6 CGM App for Android provides an alternative display
device to the receiver for users with a compatible, BLE-enabled smart device and
behaves similarly to the receiver. The G6 CGM App is compatible with certain iOS,
Android and Smart Device watches. A link to a list of compatible devices is included in
the instructions for use.
The Dexcom G6 System is an interoperable connected device that can communicate
glucose readings and other information wirelessly and securely to and from interoperable
electronic interfaces; including compatible AID systems. The G6 CGM system is
designed to communicate with interoperable devices in several ways, such as described
below:
· Wireless communication from the transmitter directly to an interoperable device
communicating through the same protocol.
· The app communicates to another app on a single mobile platform.
· The app communicates through the cloud to another software device.
2

--- Page 3 ---
2. Principles of Operation:
The Dexcom G6 System detects glucose levels from the fluid just beneath the skin
(interstitial fluid). The sensor probe continuously measures glucose concentration in the
interstitial fluid via an enzymatic electrochemical reaction using glucose oxidase. The
enzyme, glucose oxidase, catalyzes the oxidation of glucose and produces hydrogen
peroxide. The production of hydrogen peroxide generates an electrical current that is
proportionate to the interstitial glucose concentration. The transmitter converts the signal
using an algorithm to a glucose value read in mg/dL, which is then transmitted to the
receiver for the user to see and use accordingly.
3. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ___X___ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ___X____ or No ________
4. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable.
5. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable.
6. Calibration:
Though the Dexcom G6 System does not require user calibration, users of the Dexcom
G6 System have the option to calibrate the device manually (e.g., in situations where
users do not have to use the calibration code). An evaluation of calibration stability in
DEN170088 demonstrated that the system could be calibrated manually without
impacting system performance.
7. Quality Control:
Not applicable.
8. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and Software Development processes for
3

--- Page 4 ---
this line of product types:
Yes___X____ or No________
F. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 862.1355
2. Classification:
Class II
3 Product code:
QBJ
4. Panel:
Chemistry (75)
G. Intended Use:
1. Indication(s) for Use:
The Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (Dexcom G6 System) is a real
time, continuous glucose monitoring device indicated for the management of diabetes in
persons age 2 years and older.
The Dexcom G6 System is intended to replace fingerstick blood glucose testing for
diabetes treatment decisions. Interpretation of the Dexcom G6 System results should be
based on the glucose trends and several sequential readings over time. The Dexcom G6
System also aids in the detection of episodes of hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia,
facilitating both acute and long-term therapy adjustments.
The Dexcom G6 System is also intended to autonomously communicate with digitally
connected devices, including automated insulin dosing (AID) systems. The Dexcom G6
System can be used alone or in conjunction with these digitally connected medical
devices for the purpose of managing diabetes.
2. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
• This device is for prescription use only.
• Remove the Dexcom G6 sensor, transmitter, and receiver before Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (MRI), Computed Tomography (CT) scan, or high-frequency electrical heat
(diathermy) treatment. The magnetic fields and heat could damage the components of
4

--- Page 5 ---
the Dexcom G6 System, which may cause it to display inaccurate blood glucose
readings or may prevent alerts.
• This device is not intended for pregnant women, people on dialysis, or critically ill
patients.
• Although standard dosing of acetaminophen (1000 mg per every 6 hours) does not
appear to cause significant bias, higher supra-therapeutic levels of acetaminophen
have shown significant positive bias.
• Users should adhere to the instructions for sensor insertion site; Adult users should
only use the abdomen and pediatric users should only use the buttock or abdomen.
Sensor performance has not been evaluated in other insertion sites and may differ
from expected iCGM performance.
• Change your insertion site so it is at least 3 inches from the previous insertion site.
Using the same site too often may cause irritation or scarring.
• Do not insert your sensor over irritated skin, tattoos, near waistband, bones, or
scarring and near places that are easily bumped, pushed or laid on while sleeping.
• Store your sensors only between 36° F and 86° F. Do not store sensors in the freezer.
H. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate Device Name(s) and 510(k) numbers:
G6 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (DEN170088)
2. Comparison with Predicate Device:
This submission is for modifications to the transmitter of the predicate Dexcom G6
Continuous Glucose Monitoring System. The candidate transmitter has the same overall
form, fit, and function as the predicate transmitter. The sensor, algorithm, receiver, and
mobile App (iOS and Android) remain unchanged.
Similarities
Item Candidate Device: Predicate Device:
Dexcom G6 Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System System (DEN170088)
Intended use Real time, continuous Same
glucose monitoring device
for the management of
diabetes in persons age 2
years and older. Intended
to replace fingerstick blood
glucose testing for diabetes
treatment decisions.
Detection Method Amperometric Same
electrochemical
Enzyme Glucose oxidase Same
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities						
Item		Candidate Device:			Predicate Device:	
		Dexcom G6 Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System			System (DEN170088)	
Intended use	Real time, continuous
glucose monitoring device
for the management of
diabetes in persons age 2
years and older. Intended
to replace fingerstick blood
glucose testing for diabetes
treatment decisions.			Same		
Detection Method	Amperometric
electrochemical			Same		
Enzyme	Glucose oxidase			Same		

--- Page 6 ---
Similarities
Item Candidate Device: Predicate Device:
Dexcom G6 Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System System (DEN170088)
Sample Type Interstitial fluid Same
Test Range 40-400 mg/dL Same
Glucose reading update Autonomously every 5 Same
interval minutes
Anatomical sensor wear Abdomen (age 2+ years) or Same
locations upper buttocks (age 2-17
years)
Sensor dimensions 45º insertion angle, 8mm Same
depth, 0.2mm diameter
Sensor calibration Factory calibrated, with Same
optional user calibration
Sensor warm up time 2 hours Same
Sensor life Up to 10 days (automatic Same
sensor shutoff)
Operational conditions Ambient Temperature: Same
50ºF – 107.6ºF
Humidity: 10%-95% RH
Altitude: -1300 feet to
13,800 feet
Wireless communications Bluetooth Core Same
protocol Specification v4.0
Communications range 20 feet Same
Transmitter dimensions Length: 1.8 inches Same
Width: 1.2 inches
Thickness: 0.6 inches
Transmitter life Up to 3 months Same
Differences
Item Candidate Device: Predicate Device:
Dexcom G6 Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System System (DEN170088)
Transmitter exterior Hardware is encapsulated Hardware is encapsulated
design by two plastic by epoxy, which is formed
(polyetherimide) shells, in a mold
which are ultrasonically
welded together
Transmitter weight 0.29 ounces 0.30 ounces
6

[Table 1 on page 6]
Similarities						
Item		Candidate Device:			Predicate Device:	
		Dexcom G6 Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System			System (DEN170088)	
Sample Type	Interstitial fluid			Same		
Test Range	40-400 mg/dL			Same		
Glucose reading update
interval	Autonomously every 5
minutes			Same		
Anatomical sensor wear
locations	Abdomen (age 2+ years) or
upper buttocks (age 2-17
years)			Same		
Sensor dimensions	45º insertion angle, 8mm
depth, 0.2mm diameter			Same		
Sensor calibration	Factory calibrated, with
optional user calibration			Same		
Sensor warm up time	2 hours			Same		
Sensor life	Up to 10 days (automatic
sensor shutoff)			Same		
Operational conditions	Ambient Temperature:
50ºF – 107.6ºF
Humidity: 10%-95% RH
Altitude: -1300 feet to
13,800 feet			Same		
Wireless communications
protocol	Bluetooth Core
Specification v4.0			Same		
Communications range	20 feet			Same		
Transmitter dimensions	Length: 1.8 inches
Width: 1.2 inches
Thickness: 0.6 inches			Same		
Transmitter life	Up to 3 months			Same		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Differences						
Item		Candidate Device:			Predicate Device:	
		Dexcom G6 Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System			System (DEN170088)	
Transmitter exterior
design	Hardware is encapsulated
by two plastic
(polyetherimide) shells,
which are ultrasonically
welded together			Hardware is encapsulated
by epoxy, which is formed
in a mold		
Transmitter weight	0.29 ounces			0.30 ounces		

--- Page 7 ---
Differences
Item Candidate Device: Predicate Device:
Dexcom G6 Continuous Dexcom G6 Continuous
Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System System (DEN170088)
Transmitter power supply Silver oxide 1.55V, 80 Lithium manganese 3.0V,
mAh battery (not 140mAh
replaceable or dioxide battery (not
rechargeable) replaceable or
rechargeable)
I. Special Control/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Standards referenced
· IEC 62304, Ed 1.1:2015. Medical Device Software – Software Life Cycle Processes.
· IEEE/ANSI C63.27-2017. American National Standard for Evaluation of Wireless
Coexistence.
· IEC 60601-1:2012 (Third Edition). Medical Electrical Equipment – Part 1: Requirements
for basic safety and essential performance.
· ISO 10993-1:2009. Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices - Part 1: Evaluation and
testing within a risk management process.
· ISO 10993-5: 2009. Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices – Part 5: Tests for in Vitro
Cytotoxicity.
· ISO 10993-10: 2010. Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices – Part 10: Tests for
Irritation and Skin Sensitization.
· ISO 10993-12: 2012. Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices – Part 12: Sample
preparation and reference materials.
Guidance documents referenced
1. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Format for Traditional and Abbreviated 510(k)s
(issued August 12, 2005).
2. eCopy Program for Medical Device Submissions, Guidance for Industry and Food and
Drug Administration Staff (issued December 3, 2015).
3. Refuse to Accept Policy for 510(k)s, Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug
Administration Staff (issued January 30, 2018).
4. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Guidance for the Content of Premarket
Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices (issued May 11, 2005).
5. Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical
Devices, Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff (issued dated
October 2, 2014).
6. Use of International Standard ISO 10993-1, “Biological evaluation of medical devices –
Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk management process,” Guidance for Industry
and Food and Drug Administration Staff (issued June 16, 2016).
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Differences						
Item		Candidate Device:			Predicate Device:	
		Dexcom G6 Continuous			Dexcom G6 Continuous	
		Glucose Monitoring			Glucose Monitoring	
		System			System (DEN170088)	
Transmitter power supply	Silver oxide 1.55V, 80
mAh battery (not
replaceable or
rechargeable)			Lithium manganese 3.0V,
140mAh
dioxide battery (not
replaceable or
rechargeable)		

--- Page 8 ---
7. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Appropriate Use of Voluntary Consensus
Standards in Premarket Submissions for Medical Devices (issued September 14, 2018).
8. Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Use of Symbols on Labels and in Labeling of In
Vitro Diagnostic Devices Intended for Professional Use (issued November 30, 2004).
9. General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff
(issued January 11, 2002).
J. Performance Characteristics:
The analytical and clinical performance of this device was established in DEN170088. The
candidate transmitter has the same overall form, fit, and function as the predicate transmitter,
which would not be expected to impact the performance of the device. Transmitter firmware
was modified to support the new transmitter hardware with the predicate G6 Algorithm. The
sensor, algorithm, receiver, and mobile App (iOS and Android) remain unchanged.
1. Analytical Performance:
a. Accuracy:
As established in DEN170088.
b. Precision/Reproducibility:
As established in DEN170088.
c. Linearity:
As established in DEN170088.
d. Carryover:
Not applicable.
e. Interfering Substances:
As established in DEN170088.
2. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Data Not Covered Above:
Clinical performance
The clinical accuracy performance of the device was established in DEN170088.
Stability
Sensor shelf-life stability was established in DEN170088.
8

--- Page 9 ---
The G6 Transmitter has sufficient battery life to function for 3 months as intended
following its maximum storage time of 12 months. Battery life testing protocols were
reviewed and found to be acceptable.
Biocompatibility
Biocompatibility testing was conducted in accordance with ISO 10993-1:2009, ISO
10993-5: 2009, ISO 10993-10: 2010, and ISO 10993-12: 2012. Cytotoxicity,
sensitization, and irritation testing of the G6 Transmitter was performed and the results
were found to be acceptable.
Biocompatibility testing of other patient-contacting components of the G6 System was
conducted in DEN170088 and found acceptable.
Mechanical Engineering
Transmitter hardware testing provided to support sound mechanical function of the
device was reviewed and found acceptable.
Mechanical hardware testing of other components of the G6 System was conducted in
DEN170088 and found acceptable.
Electromagnetic Compatibility and Wireless
Electromagnetic Compatibility testing for radio frequency (RF) emissions and
electromagnetic immunity was conducted for the G6 Transmitter and demonstrated
compliance to IEC 60601-1-2:2014.
Electromagnetic Compatibility testing for the G6 Receiver was established in
DEN170088.
Wireless testing for the subject G6 System demonstrated compliance to Federal
Communication Commission (FCC), Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) requirements. Additionally, testing demonstrated that the subject
G6 Transmitter meets all required performance specifications, which include
radiofrequency (RF) communication range, wireless coexistence, RF interference, and
compatibility with security and logistical systems.
Electrical Safety
The basic safety and essential performance of the subject G6 Transmitter was evaluated
and demonstrated compliance to IEC-60601-1:2012 and IEC 60601-1-11:2015.
The basic safety and essential performance of the G6 Receiver was established in
DEN170088.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Packaging Integrity/Shipping Integrity
Packaging and shipping validation studies were performed for the subject G6 Transmitter
kit and demonstrated that the packaging and distribution packaging configuration(s)
withstand the hazards and rigors of the distribution and shipping environment and
provide physical protection to the contained product.
Packaging and shipping validation for the G6 Receiver kits and G6 Sensor kits was
established in DEN170088.
Cybersecurity
The following information was provided for the device:
· Risk Management
o A model describing the assets, threats, vulnerabilities, and controls related to the
device system was reviewed. Cybersecurity parameters were identified for each
asset and included the transmitter, receiver, and smart device applications. The
traceability provided was adequate and the risk management was acceptable.
· Planning for Continuing Support
o A plan for continuing to keep the device secure was provided and found to be
complete and adequate.
o Plan for Malware-Free Shipping
o A plan to ensure the device is shipped without Malware was provided and found
to be complete and adequate.
The following supportive instrument performance characteristics were established
in DEN170088:
· Detection limit
· Sterility
· Human Factors
· Environmental testing
· Interoperability
K. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Parts 801 and 809, as
applicable, and the special controls for this device type under 21 CFR 862.1355.
L. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
10