
--- Page 1 ---
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I 510(k) Number:
K183255
II Applicant:
CoaguSense, Inc.
III Proprietary and Established Names:
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT) / INR Monitoring Device
IV Regulatory Information:
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.7750 -
GJS Class II HE – Hematology
Prothrombin Time Test
V Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification of device(s) previously cleared for professional use under K050243 and patient self-
testing under K093243. The hardware and operating system have been updated in the modified
device.
B Measurand:
Prothrombin Time and International Normalized Ratio (INR)
C Type of Test:
Quantitative clotting assay
K183255 - Page 1 of 10

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
GJS			Class II	21 CFR 864.7750 -
Prothrombin Time Test			HE – Hematology

--- Page 2 ---
VI Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
Same as Indication(s) for Use
B Indication(s) for Use:
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT) / INR Monitoring System (Professional Use)
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System is an in vitro diagnostic device
that provides quantitative prothrombin time (PT) results, expressed in seconds and INR units. It
uses fresh capillary whole blood. It is intended for use by health care professionals at the point of
care to monitor patients who are on warfarin-type (coumarin) anticoagulation therapy.
The device is not intended to be used for screening purposes.
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT) / INR Monitoring System (Self-Test)
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT) / INR Monitoring System (Self-Test) is an in vitro
diagnostic device that provides quantitative prothrombin time (PT) results, expressed in seconds
and INR units. It uses fresh capillary whole blood. It is intended for use by properly selected and
suitably trained patients or their caregivers on the order of the treating physician to monitor
patients who are on anticoagulation therapy. Patients should be stabilized on warfarin-type
(coumarin) anticoagulation therapy prior to self- testing.
The device is not intended to be used for screening purposes.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
Not applicable
VII Device Description:
A Device Description:
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System is a modification to the
Immedia Prothrombin Time System cleared for professional use (K050243) and the Coag-Sense
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System cleared for patient self-testing (K093243). The
hardware and operating system have been upgraded in the modified device to address parts and
technology obsolescence, and to address current communications technologies. The modified
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System uses the identical test strip, method
of detection, thromboplastin reagent and calibration approach as found in the predicate system.
The intended use and technological characteristics remain unchanged from that of the predicate
K183255 - Page 2 of 10

--- Page 3 ---
device. The new Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System is available in two
formats; one for Professional Use and one for Patient Self-Testing.
B Principle of Operation:
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System measures the PT of fresh
capillary whole blood using micro-mechanical end-point detection. The test is performed by
inserting a test strip into the meter and applying a drop of blood to the sample receptacle of the
test strip. The disposable test strip contains a rotating, spoked wheel that draws the sample into
the reaction well after it is applied to the sample receptacle. The reaction well contains a pre-
measured and dried quantity of thromboplastin. The wheel spokes rotate across the optical path
of an infrared light beam. The spokes mix the patient sample with the reagent. As the patient
sample transforms into a solid clot, it is picked up by the continuously-rotating spokes and is
carried across the path of the infrared light beam interrupting the beam pattern. The time at
which the clot interrupts the light beam is reported as the prothrombin time (PT). The PT
seconds result is a true Prothrombin Time (patient’s actual clotting time) and not a calculated
value. The INR is calculated from the PT in seconds result, the Mean Normal Prothrombin Time
(MNPT) and International Sensitivity Index (ISI) values for the reagent are determined by
comparison to a WHO reference preparation.
C Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.
1. Instrument Name:
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System
2. Specimen Identification:
Patient ID information must be scanned using the optional barcode scanner or manually
entered in the meter when prompted.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR test strip is intended for single-use only. Once
the test strip is inserted into the meter, a drop of fresh capillary whole blood sample collected by
fingerstick is manually applied to the test strip target area and analyzed by the Coag-Sense
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR meter.
K183255 - Page 3 of 10

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.								

--- Page 4 ---
4. Calibration:
The calibration parameters for each master lot of reagent is obtained during production by
calibrating a subset of the test strips against a working International Reference Preparation
(IRP) standard traceable to the tilt tube reference method adopted by the World Health
Organization.
For each test strip lot, the calibration (MNPT and ISI) information used to convert PT in
seconds to INR is conveyed to the meter on a lot specific Near Field Communication (NFC)
tag, which is read using a built-in wireless NFC reader on the meter. This tag also contains
strip lot expiration date and allowable low and high QC strip plasma clotting time ranges.
The NFC Tag is located on the test strip box and is a micro data chip with antenna that
contains the required test strip kit information. It allows transmission of the test strip kit
information to the meter.
5. Quality Control:
High Control and Low Control Strips are provided for user quality control purposes and
contain the same thromboplastin reagent as the patient test strips as well as plasma of known
INR. The CoaguSense control strips form a clot using actual plasma of known INR and the
identical lot of thromboplastin used in the manufacturing of the patient test strips. The
process of running this liquid quality control tests the reagents’ ability to generate a clot as
well as the analyzer’s ability to detect a clot. Control testing should be completed for each
new lot of test strip received.
VIII Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Immedia Prothrombin Time System
Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K050243
K093243
C Comparison with Predicate:
Predicate Device
Device & Predicate Subject Device
K050243 (Professional Use)
Device(s): K183255
K093243 (Self-Test Use)
General Device
Characteristics: Similarities
Intended Use/Indications Professional Use (K050243)
Professional Use
for Use
K183255 - Page 4 of 10

[Table 1 on page 4]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):			Subject Device
K183255		Predicate Device	
					K050243 (Professional Use)	
					K093243 (Self-Test Use)	
	General Device					
	Characteristics: Similarities					
Intended Use/Indications
for Use			Professional Use	Professional Use (K050243)		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):

[Table 3 on page 4]
Subject Device
K183255

--- Page 5 ---
Predicate Device
Device & Predicate Subject Device
K050243 (Professional Use)
Device(s): K183255
K093243 (Self-Test Use)
The Coag-Sense The Coag-Sense Prothrombin
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Time (PT)/INR Monitoring
Monitoring System is an in System is an in vitro diagnostic
vitro diagnostic device that device that provides quantitative
provides quantitative prothrombin time (PT) results,
prothrombin time (PT) expressed in seconds and INR
results, expressed in seconds units. It uses fresh capillary
and INR units. It uses fresh whole blood. It is intended for
capillary whole blood. It is use by health care professional
intended for use by health at the point of care to monitor
care professional at the point patients who are on warfarin-
of care to monitor patients type (coumarin) anticoagulation
who are on warfarin-type therapy.
(coumarin) anticoagulation
therapy. The Coag-Sense PT/INR System
may be used for multiple-patient
The Coag-Sense PT/INR testing in a professional
System may be used for healthcare setting. The device is
multiple-patient testing in a not intended to be used for
professional healthcare screening purposes.
setting. The device is not
intended to be used for
screening purposes.
Self-Testing Self-Testing (K093243)
The Coag-Sense The Coag-Sense Prothrombin
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Time (PT)/INR
Monitoring System (Self- Monitoring System (Self-Test)
Test) is an in vitro is an in vitro diagnostic device
diagnostic device that that provides quantitative
provides quantitative prothrombin time (PT) results,
prothrombin time (PT) expressed in seconds and INR
results, expressed in seconds units. It uses fresh capillary
and INR units. It uses fresh whole blood.
capillary whole blood.
It is intended for use by properly
It is intended for use by selected and suitably trained
properly selected and patients or their caregivers on
suitably trained patients or the order of the treating
their caregivers on the order physician to monitor patients
of the treating physician to who are on anticoagulation
monitor patients who are on therapy.
anticoagulation therapy.
Patients should be stabilized on
Patients should be stabilized warfarin-type (coumarin)
on warfarin-type (coumarin) anticoagulation therapy prior to
anticoagulation therapy self-testing. The device is not
prior to self-testing. The intended to be used for
device is not intended to be screening purposes.
used for screening purposes.
K183255 - Page 5 of 10

[Table 1 on page 5]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):	Subject Device
K183255		Predicate Device	
			K050243 (Professional Use)	
			K093243 (Self-Test Use)	
	The Coag-Sense
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR
Monitoring System is an in
vitro diagnostic device that
provides quantitative
prothrombin time (PT)
results, expressed in seconds
and INR units. It uses fresh
capillary whole blood. It is
intended for use by health
care professional at the point
of care to monitor patients
who are on warfarin-type
(coumarin) anticoagulation
therapy.
The Coag-Sense PT/INR
System may be used for
multiple-patient testing in a
professional healthcare
setting. The device is not
intended to be used for
screening purposes.	The Coag-Sense Prothrombin
Time (PT)/INR Monitoring
System is an in vitro diagnostic
device that provides quantitative
prothrombin time (PT) results,
expressed in seconds and INR
units. It uses fresh capillary
whole blood. It is intended for
use by health care professional
at the point of care to monitor
patients who are on warfarin-
type (coumarin) anticoagulation
therapy.
The Coag-Sense PT/INR System
may be used for multiple-patient
testing in a professional
healthcare setting. The device is
not intended to be used for
screening purposes.		
	Self-Testing
The Coag-Sense
Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR
Monitoring System (Self-
Test) is an in vitro
diagnostic device that
provides quantitative
prothrombin time (PT)
results, expressed in seconds
and INR units. It uses fresh
capillary whole blood.
It is intended for use by
properly selected and
suitably trained patients or
their caregivers on the order
of the treating physician to
monitor patients who are on
anticoagulation therapy.
Patients should be stabilized
on warfarin-type (coumarin)
anticoagulation therapy
prior to self-testing. The
device is not intended to be
used for screening purposes.	Self-Testing (K093243)
The Coag-Sense Prothrombin
Time (PT)/INR
Monitoring System (Self-Test)
is an in vitro diagnostic device
that provides quantitative
prothrombin time (PT) results,
expressed in seconds and INR
units. It uses fresh capillary
whole blood.
It is intended for use by properly
selected and suitably trained
patients or their caregivers on
the order of the treating
physician to monitor patients
who are on anticoagulation
therapy.
Patients should be stabilized on
warfarin-type (coumarin)
anticoagulation therapy prior to
self-testing. The device is not
intended to be used for
screening purposes.		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):

[Table 3 on page 5]
Subject Device
K183255

--- Page 6 ---
Predicate Device
Device & Predicate Subject Device
K050243 (Professional Use)
Device(s): K183255
K093243 (Self-Test Use)
Rotating wheel physically
lifts the clot at the time
Test Principle coagulation occurs and is Same
detected by interruption of
infrared light beam
Dried recombinant rabbit
Clotting Reagent thromboplastin, stabilizers Same
and preservatives
Disposable plastic strip with
Patient Test Strips Same
rotating wheel
Blood Sample Size 10–12 μL Same
Hi and Low-test control
strips are provided with each
Control Strips carton of strips; each control Same
strips contains plasma of
known INR
Internal self-check protocol
to assure room temperature,
timing functions, battery
Quality Control Same
level and optical and
mechanical functions are
within specification
Measurement Range 0.8 – 8.0 INR Same
Hematocrit Range 15–60% Same
General Device
Characteristics: Differences
• 2000 patient test results
with date and time 100 tests with time, date,
Memory Capacity • 500 control test results calibration code, controls and
with date and time errors
• 1000 Operator accounts
PC and Printer Wired - Ethernet, USB
Wired - RS-232
Connectivity Method Wireless - WiFi, Bluetooth
Communications Port USB RS-232
User Interface Screen Color LCD Touch Screen Monochrome LCD display
Battery Lithium Polymer battery. 4 x 1.5V (AA) alkaline batteries.
Type/Replaceable Not user replaceable Replaceable by the user
IX Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
IEC 60601-1-2: 2007 Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for basic
safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Electromagnetic compatibility -
Requirements and tests
CLSI POCT14-A: 2014 Point-of-Care Monitoring of Anticoagulation Therapy; Approved
Guideline
K183255 - Page 6 of 10

[Table 1 on page 6]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):			Subject Device
K183255		Predicate Device	
					K050243 (Professional Use)	
					K093243 (Self-Test Use)	
Test Principle			Rotating wheel physically
lifts the clot at the time
coagulation occurs and is
detected by interruption of
infrared light beam	Same		
Clotting Reagent			Dried recombinant rabbit
thromboplastin, stabilizers
and preservatives	Same		
Patient Test Strips			Disposable plastic strip with
rotating wheel	Same		
Blood Sample Size			10–12 μL	Same		
Control Strips			Hi and Low-test control
strips are provided with each
carton of strips; each control
strips contains plasma of
known INR	Same		
Quality Control			Internal self-check protocol
to assure room temperature,
timing functions, battery
level and optical and
mechanical functions are
within specification	Same		
Measurement Range			0.8 – 8.0 INR	Same		
Hematocrit Range			15–60%	Same		
	General Device					
	Characteristics: Differences					
Memory Capacity			• 2000 patient test results
with date and time
• 500 control test results
with date and time
• 1000 Operator accounts	100 tests with time, date,
calibration code, controls and
errors		
PC and Printer
Connectivity Method			Wired - Ethernet, USB
Wireless - WiFi, Bluetooth	Wired - RS-232		
Communications Port			USB	RS-232		
User Interface Screen			Color LCD Touch Screen	Monochrome LCD display		
Battery
Type/Replaceable			Lithium Polymer battery.
Not user replaceable	4 x 1.5V (AA) alkaline batteries.
Replaceable by the user		

[Table 2 on page 6]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):

[Table 3 on page 6]
Subject Device
K183255

--- Page 7 ---
X Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
The precision of the Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System was
evaluated during the clearance of the device for professional use using control material,
therapeutic samples (plasma and whole blood), and capillary whole blood. Refer to
submission K050243 for the details of this study.
2. Linearity/Assay Reportable Range:
The linear range of the Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System was
established during the clearance of the device for professional use. The system was found to
be linear up to an INR of 8.0. Refer to submission K050243 for the details of the linearity
study.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
An interference study was conducted to determine the level of interference with the INR
results generated by the device for the following interfering substances: bilirubin, hemolysis,
heparin, low molecular weight heparin, and lipemia. Refer to submission K050243 for the
details of this study.
4. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Stability
The stability of the Coag-Sense PT/INR test strips and the control test strips (high and low)
were tested at designated time intervals, under varying storage conditions during the
clearance of the device for professional use. Refer to submission K050243 for the details of
this study.
Traceability
Each lot of Coag-Sense PT/INR test strips is factory calibrated to a reference lot of human
recombinant thromboplastin traceable to the WHO International Reference Preparation,
rTF/16.
5. Detection Limit:
Detection limits for the Coag-Sense Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR Monitoring System were
established during the clearance of the device for professional use. Refer to submission
K050243 for the details of this study.
6. Assay Cut-Off:
K183255 - Page 7 of 10

--- Page 8 ---
Not applicable
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
A study was conducted comparing the modified device to the predicate device at a single-site
using whole blood from normal subjects not on oral anticoagulation therapy as well as from
subjects on oral anticoagulation therapy. To validate the performance of the system across
the measuring range, plasma samples ranging from 0.9 to 7.4 INR were also tested.
Test meters representing the predicate device (PT1) and the modified device (PT2) were
paired in three sets (PT1 vs. PT2) analyzing identical test samples. The test samples included
contrived plasma control samples covering medical decision levels of PT/INR measurements
as well as whole blood samples from therapeutic patients and normal subjects (not on
warfarin therapy). Plasma samples spanning the INR measuring range of the device (INR
0.9–7.4) were included in the study. Each test sample in this study was tested five times on
each meter, for a total of 15 data points for PT1 and 15 data points for PT2.
In addition, whole blood samples were obtained from five different therapeutic patients and
five different normal subjects. Three separate fingerstick samples were collected, each
fingerstick providing two samples for each set of meters. Bland-Altman bias plots were
created to evaluate agreement between the two quantitative measurements. The resulting
graph shows the difference between the two paired measurements (PT1 -PT 2) plotted
against the average of these measures ((PT1+PT2)/2). The analysis demonstrates that the
acceptance criteria were met, and the modified device has acceptable bias across samples and
INR ranges when compared to the predicate device.
Calibration Comparison: RTF/09 vs. RTF/16
During the clearance of the predicate device (PT1), reagents used in the test and control strips
were calibrated against International Reference Preparation (IRP) rTF/09. Due to the phasing
out of IRP rTF/09, reagents used in the test and control strips for the modified device (PT2)
were calibrated to the current IRP rTF/16. To ensure that the change in IRP did not impact
the performance of the modified device, an internal study was conducted to compare strip
lots calibrated against rTF/09 against strip lots calibrated against rTF/16. Nine different
plasma samples spanning the AMR were used in the study. The samples were tested on both
PT1 and PT2 meters using test strips containing reagent that were calibrated using IRP
rTF/09 and a current test strip lot containing reagents calibrated using IRP rTF/16. Linear
regression and bias analysis demonstrate that the two lots of test strips, rTF/09 and rTF/16,
correlate well with acceptable performance across the AMR, and that the modified PT2 meter
performs the same as the predicate PT1 meter.
Comparison to Reference Method
Performance of the Coag-Sense PT/INR Monitoring System (modified device) was evaluated
by comparison to the laboratory reference method. Customer conducted correlation studies
were performed at six clinical sites using 12 POC operators. A fingerstick sample was
K183255 - Page 8 of 10

--- Page 9 ---
collected from each patient and the capillary whole blood was applied to the Coag-Sense test
strip. A venous sample was collected at the same time and sent for testing on the plasma-
based Diagnostica Stago analyzer. All Coag-Sense test strips used in these studies were
calibrated against IRP rTF/16. A total of 203 patient samples were analyzed across the six
sites, including INR values ranging between 0.9–5.1.
The pooled customer data was analyzed using regression analysis; the correlation coefficient
(r), slope and intercept were determined for the data set, and graphs of the regression and bias
analysis results were generated. The data demonstrate acceptable performance.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Usability Testing
A usability study was conducted to verify changes in the user interface. To gain feedback on
the general user interface flow and labeling materials, a formative evaluation was performed
by 10 users unfamiliar with the use of home-use devices. The formative evaluation was
followed by a summative validation study which was performed by two groups: 1)
professional users and 2) home use patients. The professional user group included 10 users
with some experience on the original Coag-Sense meter and five users who had familiarity
with fingerstick point-of-care devices (n= 15 professional users). The study was performed at
three sites for the professional group. The home use patient group included 20 users
experienced with fingerstick testing at home and 10 inexperienced users, not familiar with
home test monitoring devices (n= 30 home use patients).
Once testing concluded, both groups of users were asked to complete a questionnaire to
evaluate the ease of use for various features of the meter and the clarity of the instructions for
use. All usability testing results were determined to be acceptable.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
K183255 - Page 9 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
A normal range study was conducted on 120 healthy subjects not on anticoagulation therapy.
The PT reference interval was established as 11.6–14.5 seconds and the INR range was
established as 0.8–1.2 during the clearance of the device for professional use. Refer to
submission K050243 for the details of this study.
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Validation and Verification
Validation and verification studies including bench testing, transportation testing, and electrical
safety testing were performed on the modified Coag-Sense PT/INR Monitoring System. Bench
testing included the following studies: Viral Inactivation Study, Cleaning/Disinfection Study,
Component Testing (including power consumption, battery, clock, temperature, humidity,
memory, and communication), Drop Test, and Vibration Testing. In addition, Transit Testing
was conducted to demonstrate that the meter can withstand shipping simulation, including drop
and shock conditions during transportation.
Electrical Safety Testing
Electrical safety testing was performed per the applicable sections of the following electrical
safety standards:
• IEC 61010-1:2010; Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement,
control, and laboratory use - Part 1: General requirements
• IEC 61010-2-101:2015; Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement,
control, and laboratory use - Part 2-101: Particular requirements for in vitro diagnostic
(IVD) medical equipment
Software Verification and Validation
Software verification and validation was performed on functions of the software to ensure that
the software performs as intended. Verification and validation testing of the Coag-Sense PT/INR
Monitoring System demonstrated that the software performed as intended and demonstrated
acceptable performance. Cybersecurity documentation was prepared according to FDA Guidance
Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices
(October 2, 2014).
The verification and validation tests passed all predetermined acceptance criteria. The modified
device met design input requirements, product specifications and relevant standards.
XI Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
XII Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K183255 - Page 10 of 10