
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
A. 510(k) Number:
K190332
B. Purpose for Submission:
New Whole Slide Imaging (WSI) system
C. Measurand:
Not applicable
D. Type of Test:
Digital pathology whole slide imaging
E. Applicant:
Leica Biosystems Imaging, Inc.
F. Proprietary and Established Names:
Aperio AT2 DX System
G. Regulatory Information:
1. Regulation section:
21 CFR 864.3700
2. Classification:
Class II (special controls)
3. Product code:
PSY
4. Panel:
88 - Pathology
1

--- Page 2 ---
H. Intended Use:
1. Intended use(s):
The Aperio AT2 DX System is an automated digital slide creation and viewing system.
The Aperio AT2 DX System is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an aid to the
pathologist to review and interpret digital images of surgical pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. The Aperio AT2 DX System is
not intended for use with frozen section, cytology, or non-FFPE hematopathology
specimens.
The Aperio AT2 DX System is composed of the Aperio AT2 DX scanner, the
ImageScope DX review application and Display. The Aperio AT2 DX System is for
creation and viewing of digital images of scanned glass slides that would otherwise be
appropriate for manual visualization by conventional light microscopy. It is the
responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and safeguards
to assure the validity of the interpretation of images obtained using the Aperio AT2 DX
System.
2. Indication(s) for use:
Same as Intended Use.
3. Special conditions for use statement(s):
For in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use only
For prescription use only
4. Special instrument requirements:
Aperio AT2 DX digital slide scanner (for software Aperio Console DX 102.0.4.46 and
Aperio Controller DX 102.0.4.85_x64)
Viewing Workstation executing ImageScope DX viewer software (version 1.0.0.5018)
Display (MR2416)
I. Device Description:
The Aperio AT2 DX System is an automated digital slide creation and viewing system.
The system is composed of the following components:
• Aperio AT2 DX digital slide scanner
• Viewing Workstation executing ImageScope DX viewer software
2

--- Page 3 ---
• Display (MR2416)
The Aperio AT2 DX digital slide scanner digitizes microscope slides at diagnostic
resolutions: 0.5 µm/pixel (20x objective equivalent) and 0.25 µm/pixel (40x objective
equivalent), to create digital WSI images. The Aperio AT2 DX scanner has a capacity of
400 1x3 inch glass slides. After the slides are loaded the scanning process begins when
the operator starts the Aperio AT2 DX scanner and finishes when the scanner has
completed scanning of all loaded slides. The image acquisition components include a
white LED light source, Olympus Plan Apo 20x lens with a Numeric Aperture (NA) of
0.75, a 10/90 beam splitter, a 2D area-scan camera and a 1D line-scan camera which is
the primary image capture device. The 10/90 bean splitter sends 10% of the photons
toward the 2D area-scan camera and remaining 90% of the photons toward the 1D line-
scan camera. Two motorized stages are used with one stage for moving the slide to be
scanned and the other stage for moving the objective lens for focusing purposes. During
scanning with a 20x objective lens, the motion of the slide stage combined with the speed
of the 1D line-scan camera, the field of view of the objective lens and the number of
pixels of the camera result in a resolution of 0.5 µm/pixel for 20x magnification. 40x
magnification is achieved with a magnification doubler, with 0.25 μm/pixel resolution.
Focus during the scan is maintained using a triangulated focus map built from individual
focus points determined in a separate step before scanning is started. Proprietary software
is used for image processing during acquisition. Leica’s proprietary format, SVS, is used
to store and transmit the images between the Aperio AT2 DX digital slide scanner and
the ImageScope DX viewer on viewing station. Software Aperio Controller DX runs on
the AT2 DX workstation as a system service and controls the operations of the scanner.
Software Aperio Console DX is a desktop program that runs on the AT2 DX workstation
with a display monitor (Dell MR2416) and provides user interface for an operator to
control operations of AT2 DX scanner.
The ImageScope DX application is a software only subsystem to be used with the display
monitor (Dell MR2416) and runs on a separate viewing workstation PC. The ImageScope
DX software opens the WSI images acquired with Aperio AT2 DX scanner from the
image storage attached to local network and uses the color profile to render the image
data to the calibrated display monitor to deliver the image view at the appropriate
magnification and color. Functionalities of ImageScope DX include navigating the slide
similar to using an optical microscope, panning across the slide to examine all tissue
regions, zooming in and out to allow review at different magnification levels, and
allowing pathologist annotations during review.
The different subsystems of the Aperio AT2 DX System are connected over an IT
network at the user site. The IT hardware/software that supports the ImageScope DX
Application Server & Storage software is not provided as part of the Aperio AT2 DX
System, but may be located in a central server room separate from the workstation with
the ImageScope DX viewing software and Display. The communication of data between
Aperio AT2 DX scanner and ImageScope DX application is via a customer provided
wired network or a direct connected cable between these subsystems. Aperio AT2 DX
System includes a display that has been validated as part of the pivotal clinical study.
3

--- Page 4 ---
The Aperio AT2 DX System allows pathologists to view and evaluate digital images of
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue slides that would otherwise be
appropriate for manual visualization by conventional brightfield (light) microscopy. The
Aperio AT2 DX System does not include any automated image analysis applications that
would constitute computer aided detection or diagnosis.
J. Substantial Equivalence Information:
1. Predicate device name(s):
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS)
2. Predicate 510(k) number(s):
DEN160056
3. Comparison with predicate:
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
Intended Use The Aperio AT2 DX System is an The Philips IntelliSite
automated digital slide creation and Pathology Solution (PIPS) is
viewing system. The Aperio AT2 DX an automated digital slide
System is intended for in vitro creation, viewing, and
diagnostic use as an aid to the management system. The PIPS
pathologist to review and interpret is intended for in vitro
digital images of surgical pathology diagnostic use as an aid to the
slides prepared from formalin-fixed pathologist to review and
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. The interpret digital images of
Aperio AT2 DX System is not surgical pathology slides
intended for use with frozen section, prepared from formalin-fixed
cytology, or non-FFPE paraffin embedded (FFPE)
hematopathology specimens. tissue. The PIPS is not
intended for use with frozen
The Aperio AT2 DX System is section, cytology, or non-FFPE
composed of the Aperio AT2 DX hematopathology specimens.
scanner, the ImageScope DX review
application and Display. The Aperio The PIPS comprises the Image
AT2 DX System is for creation and Management System (IMS),
viewing of digital images of scanned the Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
glass slides that would otherwise be and Display. The PIPS is for
appropriate for manual visualization creation and viewing of digital
by conventional light microscopy. It is images of scanned glass slides
the responsibility of a qualified that would otherwise be
4

[Table 1 on page 4]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Intended Use			The Aperio AT2 DX System is an
automated digital slide creation and
viewing system. The Aperio AT2 DX
System is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to the
pathologist to review and interpret
digital images of surgical pathology
slides prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. The
Aperio AT2 DX System is not
intended for use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
The Aperio AT2 DX System is
composed of the Aperio AT2 DX
scanner, the ImageScope DX review
application and Display. The Aperio
AT2 DX System is for creation and
viewing of digital images of scanned
glass slides that would otherwise be
appropriate for manual visualization
by conventional light microscopy. It is
the responsibility of a qualified			The Philips IntelliSite
Pathology Solution (PIPS) is
an automated digital slide
creation, viewing, and
management system. The PIPS
is intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to the
pathologist to review and
interpret digital images of
surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. The PIPS is not
intended for use with frozen
section, cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS),
the Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
and Display. The PIPS is for
creation and viewing of digital
images of scanned glass slides
that would otherwise be		

--- Page 5 ---
Similarities
Item Device Predicate
pathologist to employ appropriate appropriate for manual
procedures and safeguards to assure visualization by conventional
the validity of the interpretation of light microscopy. It is the
images obtained using the Aperio AT2 responsibility of a qualified
DX System. pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the
validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using PIPS.
Specimen Surgical pathology slides prepared Same
type from FFPE tissue
Principle of After conducting Quality Control Same
operation (QC) on the glass slides per laboratory
standards (e.g., staining, cover-
slipping, barcode placement, etc.), the
technician loads the slides into the
Aperio AT2 DX scanner. The scanner
scans the slides and generates WSI
image for each slide. The technician
performs QC on scanned WSI images
by checking image data and image
quality. When QC is failed, the slide
will be re-scanned. The acquired WSI
images are stored in an end user
provided image storage attached to the
local network. During review, the
pathologist opens WSI images
acquired with the Aperio AT2 DX
scanner from the image storage,
performs further QC to ensure image
quality and reads WSI images of the
slides to make a diagnosis.
Device WSI scanner (Aperio AT2 DX Same (PIPS Ultra Fast
Components scanner), Image Management System Scanner, Image Management
(ImageScope DX application), and System and color monitor
color monitor display display)
Differences
Item Device Predicate
Whole Slide Imaging Aperio AT2 DX scanner Ultra Fast Scanner with
Scanner with loading capacity of 400 loading capacity of 300
slides slides
Graphical User Interface ImageScope DX Image Management System
Monitor Display Dell MR2416 PS27QHDCR
5

[Table 1 on page 5]
Similarities								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
			pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using the Aperio AT2
DX System.			appropriate for manual
visualization by conventional
light microscopy. It is the
responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the
validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using PIPS.		
Specimen
type			Surgical pathology slides prepared
from FFPE tissue			Same		
Principle of
operation			After conducting Quality Control
(QC) on the glass slides per laboratory
standards (e.g., staining, cover-
slipping, barcode placement, etc.), the
technician loads the slides into the
Aperio AT2 DX scanner. The scanner
scans the slides and generates WSI
image for each slide. The technician
performs QC on scanned WSI images
by checking image data and image
quality. When QC is failed, the slide
will be re-scanned. The acquired WSI
images are stored in an end user
provided image storage attached to the
local network. During review, the
pathologist opens WSI images
acquired with the Aperio AT2 DX
scanner from the image storage,
performs further QC to ensure image
quality and reads WSI images of the
slides to make a diagnosis.			Same		
Device
Components			WSI scanner (Aperio AT2 DX
scanner), Image Management System
(ImageScope DX application), and
color monitor display			Same (PIPS Ultra Fast
Scanner, Image Management
System and color monitor
display)		

[Table 2 on page 5]
Differences								
	Item			Device			Predicate	
Whole Slide Imaging
Scanner			Aperio AT2 DX scanner
with loading capacity of 400
slides			Ultra Fast Scanner with
loading capacity of 300
slides		
Graphical User Interface			ImageScope DX			Image Management System		
Monitor Display			Dell MR2416			PS27QHDCR		

--- Page 6 ---
K. Standard/Guidance Document Referenced (if applicable):
Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide
Imaging Devices", dated April 20, 2016.
Special controls under 21 CFR Sec. 864.3700 Whole slide imaging system.
L. Test Principle:
The Aperio AT2 DX System is an automated system designed for scanning and digitizing
surgical pathology slides prepared from FFPE tissue. These digitized images can then be
reviewed and interpreted by pathologists for clinical (patient care) purposes.
Prior to scanning the slide on the Aperio AT2 DX scanner, the technician conducts quality
control of the slides per the laboratory’s standards (e.g., staining, cover-slipping, barcode
placement, etc.). The technician then places the slides into slide feeder (Autoloader) which is
a component of the Aperio AT2 DX scanner as a batch. With AutoLoader, the scanner
automatically mounts each slide on the scanning stage, generates a macro image that includes
the slide label and a low magnification image of the entire slide. The system then locates
specimen tissues within the slide scan area, which are subsequently scanned at high
resolution (0.50 µm/pixel for 20x and 0.25 µm/pixel for 40x). After the slide is scanned, it is
returned to the same slot of the same rack from which it was originally obtained.
The images scanned in the Aperio AT2 DX scanner are compressed and saved using
proprietary SVS file format. The SVS image files are then transmitted to customer provided
Medical Device Data System (MDDS). The SVS image files acquired on Aperio AT2 DX
scanner can be reviewed through the supplied ImageScope DX review application only.
ImageScope DX application allows users to open a case, review the WSI images of the slides
(eSlides) by navigating around and viewing the WSI image at the desired magnifications.
The pathologist is responsible for ensuring the validity of the interpretation of the digital
images obtained from the Aperio AT2 DX System.
M. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
1. Analytical performance:
a. Precision/Reproducibility:
The objective of this study was to evaluate intra-system, inter-system/site, within-
pathologist and between-pathologist precision for the Aperio AT2 DX System.
The precision of the device was based on five reading pathologists’ assessments and
6

--- Page 7 ---
identification of specific histopathologic “features” that are observed in FFPE
Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stained slides. Twenty-three (23) primary features
were selected for the analytical studies. The selected primary features were evaluated
at their relevant magnifications with twelve (12) primary features evaluated at 20x
magnification level and eleven (11) primary features evaluated at 40x magnification
level.
The Precision Panel Slide Curator (curator) identified study slides by conducting a
Lab Information System (LIS) search and reviewing the microscope slides from
consecutive cases that potentially contain the study features (Table 1). A
representative H&E stained slide or a re-cut slide containing the feature(s) of interest
was obtained from each case. After the curator selected and marked the study features
on the slides, the slides were scanned at magnification levels designated to the study
features, either 20x or 40x magnification. The curator reviewed the glass slides
through the microscope while reviewing the WSI images on the monitor to extract
Field of Views (FOVs) containing the study features from the WSI images using a
lossless compression type. For each subsequent WSI images of the same slide, the
annotations were manually replicated by a technician using the image viewing
software to extract and randomly rotate the FOVs by 90, 180 or 270 degrees to
minimize recall bias. A trained study personnel verified the FOV filenames and also
that the FOV extraction areas were correct and enrolled the FOVs in the study.
During precision study, the extracted FOV images were restricted for both the area of
tissue visible to the reading pathologists and for the viewing magnification. The
reading pathologists were not allowed to navigate the WSI image or change
magnification or get access to any clinical information associated with the study
slides. Additional slides that may or may not include any of the study features were
included as “wild card” slides to reduce recall bias. The “wild card” FOVs were
extracted by following the same procedures as the study FOVs.
As shown in Table 1, each primary study feature was represented in three (3) FFPE
sections of different organ types. From each slide, two (2) or three (3) FOVs
containing either one primary study feature, or a primary study feature and secondary
study feature(s) in each FOV were selected. A total of 202 FOVs were selected from
69 glass slides. Out of 202 FOVs, 46 FOVs (from 24 slides) contained multiple
histologic features and 156 FOVs (from 62 slides) contained one primary histologic
feature. In addition, 36 wild card FOVs were selected from 12 glass slides.
Table 1: Primary Histologic Study Features in Precision Study
Magnification Primary Feature Organ Type
Level
20x Chondrocytes Toe
Femoral Head
Osteosarcoma of humerus
Fat Cells (adipocytes) Axillary lymph node
Femoral head
Prostate
7

[Table 1 on page 7]
Magnification
Level	Primary Feature	Organ Type
20x	Chondrocytes	Toe
		Femoral Head
		Osteosarcoma of humerus
	Fat Cells (adipocytes)	Axillary lymph node
		Femoral head
		Prostate

--- Page 8 ---
Foreign Body Giant Cells Left knee synovium
Shoulder
Sigmoid colon
Goblet Cells in Intestinal Gastroesophageal junction
Mucosa or Intestinal Sigmoid colon
Metaplasia Tubular adenoma (intestine)
Granulomas Colon
Iliac crest (bone)
Cervical lymph node
Infiltrating or metastatic Iliac crest (bone)
lobular carcinoma Jejunum
Left breast
Intraglandular Necrosis Left lung
Liver
Right colon
Osteoclasts Sacrum
Toe
Paget's disease of spine
Osteocytes Foot
Maxilla
Osteosarcoma of femur
Pleomorphic nucleus of Left 11th rib
malignant cell Sacrum
Vertebra
Serrated intestinal epithelium Appendix
(for example sessile serrated Ascending colon polyp
polyp) Sigmoid colon
Skeletal Muscle fibers Right lower leg
Shoulder
Spine
40x Asteroid Bodies Axillary lymph node
Liver
Synovium
Clear Cells (renal cell Humerus
carcinoma) Retroperitoneal lymph node
Right kidney
Foreign bodies (for example Distal femur
plant material or foreign Foot
debris) Wrist
Hemosiderin (pigment) Knee synovium
Liver
Osteosarcoma of femur
Megakaryocytes Cervical Spine
Femur (margin of sarcoma)
Tibia
8

[Table 1 on page 8]
	Foreign Body Giant Cells	Left knee synovium
		Shoulder
		Sigmoid colon
	Goblet Cells in Intestinal
Mucosa or Intestinal
Metaplasia	Gastroesophageal junction
		Sigmoid colon
		Tubular adenoma (intestine)
	Granulomas	Colon
		Iliac crest (bone)
		Cervical lymph node
	Infiltrating or metastatic
lobular carcinoma	Iliac crest (bone)
		Jejunum
		Left breast
	Intraglandular Necrosis	Left lung
		Liver
		Right colon
	Osteoclasts	Sacrum
		Toe
		Paget's disease of spine
	Osteocytes	Foot
		Maxilla
		Osteosarcoma of femur
	Pleomorphic nucleus of
malignant cell	Left 11th rib
		Sacrum
		Vertebra
	Serrated intestinal epithelium
(for example sessile serrated
polyp)	Appendix
		Ascending colon polyp
		Sigmoid colon
	Skeletal Muscle fibers	Right lower leg
		Shoulder
		Spine
40x	Asteroid Bodies	Axillary lymph node
		Liver
		Synovium
	Clear Cells (renal cell
carcinoma)	Humerus
		Retroperitoneal lymph node
		Right kidney
	Foreign bodies (for example
plant material or foreign
debris)	Distal femur
		Foot
		Wrist
	Hemosiderin (pigment)	Knee synovium
		Liver
		Osteosarcoma of femur
	Megakaryocytes	Cervical Spine
		Femur (margin of sarcoma)
		Tibia

--- Page 9 ---
Necrosis Femoral head
Left para-aortic lymph node
Right leg
Nerve Cell Bodies (for Ganglioneuroma
example ganglion cells) Small bowel
Stomach
Nuclear Grooves Cervical lymph node (papillary
thyroid carcinoma)
Iliac crest (bone) (Langerhan’s cell
granuloma)
Ovary (Brenner tumor)
Osteoid Matrix Femur
Humerus
Lung
Psammoma bodies Cervical lymph node (metastatic
papillary carcinoma of thyroid)
Fallopian tube (papillary ovarian
carcinoma)
Left ventral cranial region
(meningioma)
Reed-Sternberg Cell Axillary lymph node
Neck mass
Spleen
A total of five reading pathologists reviewed the FOVs in precision study. Three
pathologists reviewed for within- and between-pathologist precision, one pathologist
reviewed for intra-system precision and one pathologist reviewed for inter-
system/inter-site precision. For each magnification (20x or 40x), a separate checklist
containing eleven (11) features (for 40x) or twelve (12) features (for 20x) was
developed. For each FOV, the reading pathologist recorded the presence or absence
of each of 11 features (for 40x) or 12 features (for 20x) on a checklist. Only the
recorded results from study FOVs were used for statistical analysis. The results of
wild card FOVs were not included in the statistical analysis.
Intra-System Precision
The panel of 69 study slides was split equally among the three (3) sites (i.e., each site
scanned a separate subset of slides). Each site has a single scanning system. For each
system, 23 slides were scanned once on each of three (3) days, producing three (3)
sets of scans for each slide. FOVs were extracted from scanned WSI images. The
FOVs from three scanning sessions were evaluated by one reading pathologist over
three different reading sessions with at least a two-week washout period in between
the reading sessions. In each reading session, the reading pathologist evaluated all
202 study FOVs from each of three scanning sessions (across three scanning
systems), plus unique “wild card” FOVs to assist in preventing recall bias between
reading sessions.
9

[Table 1 on page 9]
	Necrosis	Femoral head
		Left para-aortic lymph node
		Right leg
	Nerve Cell Bodies (for
example ganglion cells)	Ganglioneuroma
		Small bowel
		Stomach
	Nuclear Grooves	Cervical lymph node (papillary
thyroid carcinoma)
		Iliac crest (bone) (Langerhan’s cell
granuloma)
		Ovary (Brenner tumor)
	Osteoid Matrix	Femur
		Humerus
		Lung
	Psammoma bodies	Cervical lymph node (metastatic
papillary carcinoma of thyroid)
		Fallopian tube (papillary ovarian
carcinoma)
		Left ventral cranial region
(meningioma)
	Reed-Sternberg Cell	Axillary lymph node
		Neck mass
		Spleen

--- Page 10 ---
For each system, agreements between scan 1 versus scan 2, scan 1 versus scan 3 and
scan 2 versus scan 3 were analyzed. The overall intra-system precision was based on
the pooled data of all three systems. A bootstrap approach was used to calculate 95%
Confidence Intervals (CIs) with the following exception. When the agreement
estimate was 100%, the Arcsine (variance stabilizing transformation) approach that
corrected for the continuity was used to calculate CIs.
Table 2: Intra-System Precision Study Results
System Number of Number of Agreement Rate and 95% CI
Pairwise Comparison % 95% CI
Agreements Pairs Agreement
System 1 193 201 96.0 (91.0, 100)
System 2 201 201 100 (98.2, 100)
System 3 199 204 97.5 (93.6, 100)
Overall 593 606 97.9 (95.9, 99.5)
Inter-System/Inter-Site Precision
At each of three study sites, a study technician scanned the entire set of 69 study
slides once. FOVs from three scanning sessions (resulting from one session from each
of the three sites) were extracted. From all the scanning systems, 606 FOVs were
transferred to a single reading pathologist for evaluation in three separate reading
sessions. In each reading session, the reading pathologist evaluated all 202 study
FOVs from a single site, plus unique “wild card” FOVs to assist in preventing recall
bias between reading sessions.
Agreements between systems at Site 1 versus Site 2, systems at Site 1 versus Site 3
and systems at Site 2 versus Site 3 were analyzed. The overall inter-system/inter-site
precision is based on the pooled data from each system to system comparison. A
bootstrap approach was used to calculate 95% CIs.
Table 3: Inter-System/Inter-Site Precision Study Results
System Number of Number of Agreement Rate and 95% CI
Pairwise Comparison % 95% CI
Agreements Pairs Agreement
Site 1 vs. 195 202 96.5 (94.1, 99.0)
Site 2
Site 1 vs. 194 202 96.0 (93.1, 98.5)
Site 3
Site 2 vs. 193 202 95.5 (92.6, 98.0)
Site 3
Overall 582 606 96.0 (93.6, 98.2)
10

[Table 1 on page 10]
System	Number of
Pairwise
Agreements	Number of
Comparison
Pairs	Agreement Rate and 95% CI	
			%
Agreement	95% CI
System 1	193	201	96.0	(91.0, 100)
System 2	201	201	100	(98.2, 100)
System 3	199	204	97.5	(93.6, 100)
Overall	593	606	97.9	(95.9, 99.5)

[Table 2 on page 10]
System	Number of
Pairwise
Agreements	Number of
Comparison
Pairs	Agreement Rate and 95% CI	
			%
Agreement	95% CI
Site 1 vs.
Site 2	195	202	96.5	(94.1, 99.0)
Site 1 vs.
Site 3	194	202	96.0	(93.1, 98.5)
Site 2 vs.
Site 3	193	202	95.5	(92.6, 98.0)
Overall	582	606	96.0	(93.6, 98.2)

--- Page 11 ---
Within-Pathologist and Between-Pathologist Precision
The entire set of 69 slides were scanned once at one site. FOVs were extracted and
saved in three different orientations. From all the orientations, 606 FOVs were
presented to each of three reading pathologists for evaluation in three reading
sessions. In each reading session, each reading pathologist evaluated all 202 study
FOVs plus unique “wild card” FOVs to assist in preventing recall bias between
reading sessions.
For within-pathologist precision, agreements between FOVs in orientation 1 versus
orientation 2, orientation 1versus orientation 3, and orientation 2 versus orientation 3
were analyzed for each reading pathologist. The overall within-pathologist precision
was based on the pooled data from each reading pathologist. A bootstrap approach
was used to calculate 95% CIs.
Table 4: Within-Pathologist Precision Study Results
Pathologist Number of Number of Agreement Rate and 95% CI
Pairwise Comparison % 95% CI
Agreements Pairs Agreement
Pathologist 1 561 606 92.6 (89.6, 95.7)
Pathologist 2 595 606 98.2 (96.3, 99.7)
Pathologist 3 571 606 94.2 (91.4, 96.9)
Overall 1727 1818 95.0 (92.9, 96.8)
For between-pathologist precision, agreements between pathologist 1 versus
pathologist 2, pathologist 1 versus pathologist 3, and pathologist 2 versus pathologist
3 were analyzed. The overall between-pathologist precision was based on the pooled
data from each reading pathologist. A bootstrap approach was used to calculate 95%
CIs.
Table 5: Between-Pathologist Precision Study Results
Pathologist Number of Number of Agreement Rate and 95% CI
Comparison Pairwise Comparison % 95% CI
Agreements Pairs Agreement
Pathologist 1 vs. 572 606 94.4 (91.6, 96.9)
Pathologist 2
Pathologist 1 vs. 562 606 92.7 (89.9, 95.4)
Pathologist 3
Pathologist 2 vs. 579 606 95.5 (93.1, 97.7)
Pathologist 3
Overall 1713 1818 94.2 (91.7, 96.4)
b. Linearity/Assay reportable range:
11

[Table 1 on page 11]
Pathologist	Number of
Pairwise
Agreements	Number of
Comparison
Pairs	Agreement Rate and 95% CI	
			%
Agreement	95% CI
Pathologist 1	561	606	92.6	(89.6, 95.7)
Pathologist 2	595	606	98.2	(96.3, 99.7)
Pathologist 3	571	606	94.2	(91.4, 96.9)
Overall	1727	1818	95.0	(92.9, 96.8)

[Table 2 on page 11]
Pathologist
Comparison	Number of
Pairwise
Agreements	Number of
Comparison
Pairs	Agreement Rate and 95% CI	
			%
Agreement	95% CI
Pathologist 1 vs.
Pathologist 2	572	606	94.4	(91.6, 96.9)
Pathologist 1 vs.
Pathologist 3	562	606	92.7	(89.9, 95.4)
Pathologist 2 vs.
Pathologist 3	579	606	95.5	(93.1, 97.7)
Overall	1713	1818	94.2	(91.7, 96.4)

--- Page 12 ---
Not applicable
c. Traceability, Stability, Expected values (controls, calibrators, or methods):
Not applicable
d. Detection limit:
Not applicable
e. Analytical specificity:
Not applicable
f. Assay cut-off:
Not applicable
2. Technical studies:
Multiple studies were conducted to evaluate the performance assessment data associated
with the technical evaluation of the Aperio AT2 DX System.
a. Slide feeder
Information was provided on the configuration of the slide feed mechanism, including
a physical description of the slide, the number of slides in queue (carrier), and the
class of automation. Information was provided on the user interaction with the slide
feeder, including hardware, software, feedback mechanisms, and Failure Mode and
Effects Analysis (FMEA).
b. Light source
Descriptive information associated with the lamp and the condenser was provided.
Testing information was provided to verify the spectral distribution of the light source
as part of the color reproduction capability of the Aperio AT2 DX scanner.
c. Imaging optics
An optical schematic with all optical elements identified from slide (object plane) to
digital image sensor (image plane) was provided. Descriptive information regarding
the microscope objective, the auxiliary lenses, and the magnification of imaging
optics was provided. Testing information regarding the relative irradiance, optical
distortions, and lateral chromatics aberrations was provided.
12

--- Page 13 ---
d. Mechanical scanner movement
Information and specifications on the configuration of the stage, method of
movement, control of movement of the stage, and FMEA was provided. Test data to
verify the repeatability of the stage movement and to verify the mechanism that the
stage movement stays within limits during operations was provided.
e. Digital imaging sensor
Information and specifications on the sensor type, pixel information, responsivity
specifications, noise specifications, readout rate, and digital output format. Test data
to determine the correct functioning of the digital image sensor that converts optical
signals of the slide to digital signals which consist of a set of numerical values
corresponding to the brightness and color at each point in the optical image was
provided.
f. Image processing software
Information and specifications on the exposure control, white balance, color
correction, sub-sampling, pixel-offset correction, pixel-gain or flat-field correction,
and pixel-defect correction were provided.
g. Image composition
Information and specifications on the scanning method, the scanning speed, and the
number of planes at the Z-axis to be digitized was provided. Test data to analyze the
image composition performance was provided.
h. Image files format
Information and specifications on the compression method, compression ratio, file
format, and file organization were provided.
i. Image review manipulation software
Information and specifications on continuous panning and pre-fetching, continuous
zooming, discrete Z-axis displacement, ability to compare multiple slide
simultaneously on multiple windows, image enhancement and sharpening functions,
color manipulation, annotation tools, and digital bookmarks were provided.
j. Computer environment
Information and specifications on the computer hardware, operating system, graphics
card, graphics card driver, color management settings, color profile, and display
interface were provided.
13

--- Page 14 ---
k. Display
Information and specifications on the technological characteristics of the display
device, physical size of the viewable area and aspect ratio, backlight type and
properties, frame rate and refresh rate, pixel array, pitch, pixel aperture ratio and
subpixel matrix scheme, subpixel driving to improve grayscale resolution, supported
color spaces, display interface, user controls of brightness, contrast, gamma, color
space, power-saving options, etc., via the on-screen display menu, ambient light
adaptation, touchscreen technology, color calibration tools, and frequency and nature
of quality-control tests was provided. Test data to verify the performance of the
display was provided.
l. Color reproducibility
Test data to evaluate the color reproducibility of the system was provided.
m. Spatial resolution
Test data to evaluate the composite optical performance of all components in the
image acquisition phase was provided.
n. Focusing test
Test data to evaluate the technical focus quality of the system was provided.
o. Whole slide tissue coverage
Test data to demonstrate that the entire tissue specimen on the glass slide is detected
by the tissue detection algorithms, and that all the tissue specimens are included in
the digital image file was provided.
p. Stitching error
Test data to evaluate the stitching errors and artifacts in the reconstructed image was
provided.
q. Turnaround time
Test data to evaluate the turnaround time of the system was provided.
3. Human factors studies:
Human factors studies designed around critical user tasks and use scenarios performed by
representative users for both histopathology technicians and pathologists were conducted.
Information included a list of all critical user tasks and a description of the process that
was followed to identify them. A systematic evaluation involving simulated use by
14

--- Page 15 ---
representative users performing all tasks (including critical tasks) required for operation
of the device, and subjective assessment of failure was provided. All participants were
able to perform all tasks (including the critical tasks) and no critical task failures were
observed. There were some occasional difficulties that are generally expected with any
piece of new software and instrument but learnability and ease of use appeared to be
considerably high. All difficulties observed were of little influence on the perception of
the usability, and no difficulties or failures were observed on tasks that could lead to
patient harm. In all instances both pathologists and histopathology technicians were able
to easily identify cases and ensure that everything was complete.
4. Clinical studies:
A multi-center study was conducted to demonstrate that viewing, reviewing, and
diagnosing digital images of surgical pathology FFPE tissue slides using the Aperio AT2
DX System is non-inferior to using optical (light) microscopy. The primary endpoint was
the difference in major discordance rates between WSI review modality (WSIR) and
microscope slide review modality (MSR) when compared to the reference (main)
diagnosis, which is based on the original sign-out pathologic diagnosis rendered at the
institutions, using an optical (light) microscope.
Five sites were used in the study. At each site, a case curation pathologist or lab
technician searched the site’s LIS to identify candidate cases with a sign-out pathologist
diagnosis. Candidate cases were identified consecutively, starting with cases at least one
(1) year old (sign-out diagnosis was made at least one year before) and continuing with
sequentially older cases. The case curation pathologist then checked whether the
candidate case met the study eligibility criteria. The case curation pathologist reviewed
the sign-out diagnosis and supporting documentation available at the time of the
diagnosis (i.e., pathology report). By reviewing the microscopic slides used to make the
sign-out diagnosis, the slide(s) that were representative of the sign-out diagnosis for the
case were identified. The selected slides included H&E, immunohistochemistry (IHC),
special stains and any slides that were not critical to diagnosis but supported the final
surgical pathology report (e.g., margins, lymph node status, vascular and neural
invasion), and any slides representing required elements of the College of American
Pathologists (CAP) applicable cancer protocols. In the case of IHCs and special stains,
the inclusion of control slides was required to fulfill the quality checks according to
general clinical practice. The site’s curation verification pathologist verified that the
selected slide(s) reflected the main diagnosis for the case as well as required ancillary
information for cancer cases, met all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria,
and then the case was enrolled.
Across five sites, a total of 2045 cases (5849 slides) consisting of multiple organ and
tissue types were enrolled. At each site (with exception of Site 1 that had three
pathologists), four pathologists read all the cases assigned to the site using both MSR and
WSIR modalities in an alternating fashion and randomized order and with a washout
period of 31 days or longer between the MSR and WSIR reads, resulting in a total of
7781 planned WSIR reads and 7781 planned MSR reads. The reading pathologists were
15

--- Page 16 ---
provided with all representative slide(s) of a case at once. An electronic case report form
(eCRF) was completed to document the reading pathologist’s diagnosis. Three
adjudicators reviewed the reader diagnoses against the corresponding sign-out diagnoses
and determined whether the reader diagnoses were concordant, minor discordant or major
discordant. A major discordance was defined as a difference in diagnosis that would be
associated with a clinically important difference in patient management. A minor
discordance was defined as a difference in diagnosis that would not be associated with a
clinically important difference in patient management. For each case, two adjudication
pathologists independently reviewed the eCRFs to determine whether or not the diagnosis
was consistent with the sign-out diagnosis. In the event that there was a disagreement
between the two adjudicators, a third adjudication pathologist reviewed the case to
achieve majority vote. In cases where all three adjudicators had a different opinion,
consensus was arrived at in an adjudication panel meeting consisting of the same three
adjudication pathologists.
Inclusion criteria:
• All glass slides with human tissue obtained via surgical pathology of the original
case were available.
• The original sign-out diagnosis and ancillary supporting information were
available.
• The selected slide(s) for the main diagnosis and the control slide(s) (e.g., controls
for IHC stained slides) matched the study requested organ type and fulfilled the
quality checks according to general clinical practice.
• For cases with multiple diagnoses in a single sign-out pathology report, only the
main diagnosis and ancillary information were included.
Exclusion criteria:
• The H&E stained slides that were used for the original sign-out diagnosis were
not available at the site and re-cuts were not available.
• If applicable, the IHC or special stain slides that were used for the original sign-
out diagnosis were not available at the site or had unacceptable artifacts. Control
slides for IHC or special stain were not available.
• Cases for which slides needed to support the original sign-out diagnosis required
either a special light source (e.g., a mercury lamp for fluorescence microscopy) or
special filters (e.g., for polarized light).
• Cases with slides containing unremovable markings or were damaged.
• Cases that contained frozen sections or gross specimens only.
• Cases that were missing significant clinical and ancillary information that was
available at the time the case was originally interpreted (e.g., X-rays).
• Cases that were signed out less than one year prior to the date of curation.
• Only one case could be enrolled per patient.
For the primary objective of demonstrating the WSIR major discordance rate to be non-
inferior to the MSR major discordance rate, a Generalized Linear Mixed Model
16

--- Page 17 ---
(GLIMMIX) logistic regression was conducted. For each reading result the dependent
variable was the major discordance status and independent variables included modality as
a fixed effect (WSIR vs. MSR) and site, reader, and case as random effects. A two-sided
95% CI for the modality effect, i.e., the overall major discordance rate difference (WSIR
minus MSR), was constructed from this analysis. If the upper bound of the 95% CI was
less than the non-inferiority margin of 4%, WSIR would be considered non-inferior to
MSR.
A total of 2045 cases were included in the Full Analysis Set with 5849 slides and 7781
planned diagnoses for each modality. During the study, reading pathologists deferred
cases by either modality per the site’s standard procedure, mimicking the intended use.
172 cases were deferred in both modalities, 87 cases (1.1% of total planned reads) were
deferred only in MSR modality and 100 cases (1.3% of total planned reads) were
deferred only in WSIR modality. 7509 WSIR diagnoses and 7522 MSR diagnoses that
were adjudicated by the adjudication panel and had consensus scores, were included in
the statistical analyses. Deferred diagnoses were excluded from the data analysis as
missing data.
The observed overall major discordance rate, i.e., over all sites, reading pathologists and
organs, was 3.73% for WSIR modality and 3.28% for MSR modality. The WSIR-MSR
difference in major discordance rate was 0.45%. The major discordance rates as
estimated by the GLIMMIX logistic model (“modeled”) resulted in similar, slightly
lower, proportions, i.e., 3.64% for WSIR modality and 3.20% for MSR modality. The
WSIR-MSR difference in major discordance rate was 0.44%, with derived two-sided
95% CI of [-0.15%, 1.03%]. The upper limit of this confidence interval was less than the
pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 4%, and therefore, the WSIR modality using the
Aperio AT2 DX System was demonstrated to be non-inferior to the MSR modality using
light microscopy with respect to major discordance rate with comparing to the main
diagnosis. Thus, the study met the primary objective as shown in Table 6.
Table 6: Clinical Study Results Based on Major Discordance Rates
Whole Slide Imaging Review Light Microscope Slide Review Difference
(WSIR) (MSR) (WSIR – MSR)
Total % Total % %
95% CI 95% CI 95% CI
Reads discordant Reads discordant discordant
Observed 3.73 - 3.28 - 0.45 -
7509 7522
Model 3.64 (3.21, 4.12) 3.20 (2.80, 3.65) 0.44 (-0.15, 1.03)
The observed differences in major discordance rates by organ types between WSIR and
MSR are shown in Table 7.
Table 7: Major Discordance Rates by Organ
Major Discordance Rate (%) % Difference in
Whole Slide Light Microscope Major Discordance
Organ
Imaging Review Slide Review Rates
(WSIR) (MSR) (WSIR – MSR)
17

[Table 1 on page 17]
	Whole Slide Imaging Review
(WSIR)			Light Microscope Slide Review
(MSR)			Difference
(WSIR – MSR)	
	Total
Reads	%
discordant	95% CI	Total
Reads	%
discordant	95% CI	%
discordant	95% CI
Observed	7509	3.73	-	7522	3.28	-	0.45	-
Model		3.64	(3.21, 4.12)		3.20	(2.80, 3.65)	0.44	(-0.15, 1.03)

[Table 2 on page 17]
Organ	Major Discordance Rate (%)		% Difference in
Major Discordance
Rates
(WSIR – MSR)
	Whole Slide
Imaging Review
(WSIR)	Light Microscope
Slide Review
(MSR)	

--- Page 18 ---
Anus/perianal 3.95 2.79 1.16
Appendix 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bladder 10.40 9.47 0.93
Brain/neuro 3.09 2.54 0.55
Breast 4.29 3.53 0.76
Colorectal 2.46 2.46 0.00
Endocrine 4.04 4.57 -0.53
Gastroesophageal
3.69 3.16 0.54
junction
Gallbladder 0.00 0.00 0.00
Gynecological 4.28 3.18 1.10
Hernia/peritoneal 0.00 0.00 0.00
Kidney 1.14 1.69 -0.56
Liver/bile duct 1.59 0.53 1.06
Lung 5.24 3.68 1.55
Lymph node 1.09 1.87 -0.78
Prostate 3.00 3.44 -0.44
Salivary gland 0.55 1.69 -1.14
Skin 4.74 2.72 2.03
Soft tissue 4.23 4.83 -0.60
Stomach 3.15 2.09 1.06
Three (3) organ types, appendix, gallbladder and hernial/peritoneal, had major
discordance rates of 0.00% for both modalities. For all organ types, the absolute values of
the observed differences in the major discordance rates between WSIR diagnosis and
MSR diagnosis (relative to the reference diagnosis) were ≤ 2.03%. When examining the
major discordance rates, ‘Bladder’ had the highest major discordance rate of 10.40% for
WSIR and 9.47% for MSR. However, statistical model showed that the modality-by-
organ interaction was not statistically significant.
Secondary analysis of agreement between the WSIR and MSR diagnosis showed that
there was also strong agreement between the two modalities. There were 7423 pairs of
readings with both adjudication outcomes for WSIR and MSR. Results showed 96.1% of
the paired readings resulted in no major discordance for both modalities (94.7%) or major
discordance for both modalities (1.47%).
The modality-by-organ interaction was not statistically significant. The clinical study was
not powered to analyze the results by individual organ site or diagnosis. The number of
unbalanced diagnoses in which the WSIR modality had major discordance and the MSR
modality had concordance with the reference diagnosis in each tissue/organ type category
ranged from 0 cases for kidney to 15 cases in breast, corresponding to 0.0% to 4.9% of
the total cases in each organ type group. Similarly, the number of unbalanced diagnoses
in which the MSR modality had major discordance and the WSIR modality had
concordance with the reference diagnosis in each tissue/organ type category ranged from
0 cases in skin to 13 cases in breast, corresponding to 0.0% to 4.3% of the total cases in
each organ type group. Thus, unbalanced diagnoses represented a small percentage of the
18

[Table 1 on page 18]
Anus/perianal	3.95	2.79	1.16
Appendix	0.00	0.00	0.00
Bladder	10.40	9.47	0.93
Brain/neuro	3.09	2.54	0.55
Breast	4.29	3.53	0.76
Colorectal	2.46	2.46	0.00
Endocrine	4.04	4.57	-0.53
Gastroesophageal
junction	3.69	3.16	0.54
Gallbladder	0.00	0.00	0.00
Gynecological	4.28	3.18	1.10
Hernia/peritoneal	0.00	0.00	0.00
Kidney	1.14	1.69	-0.56
Liver/bile duct	1.59	0.53	1.06
Lung	5.24	3.68	1.55
Lymph node	1.09	1.87	-0.78
Prostate	3.00	3.44	-0.44
Salivary gland	0.55	1.69	-1.14
Skin	4.74	2.72	2.03
Soft tissue	4.23	4.83	-0.60
Stomach	3.15	2.09	1.06

--- Page 19 ---
overall cases and occurred with similar frequency for both modalities. When the specific
diagnoses were examined by tissue/organ type, there were no apparent trends in any
tissue/organ type that suggested WSIR is more inherently prone to major discrepancies
compared to MSR. When examining this data by reading pathologist, none of the reading
pathologists showed a tendency to have more types of specific major discrepancies with
WSIR as compared to MSR. In every case the observed rates were within the known and
established rate of inter-pathologist variation in diagnosis as reported in literature.
4. Clinical cut-off:
Not applicable
5. Expected values/Reference range:
Not applicable
N. Instrument Name:
Aperio AT2 DX System
O. System Descriptions:
1. Modes of Operation:
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer, webserver,
or mobile device?
Yes ____X____ or No ________
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Yes ________ or No ____X____
2. Software:
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes for
this line of product types:
Yes ____X____ or No ________
3. Specimen Identification:
Glass slides are identified by barcodes on slide label.
19

--- Page 20 ---
4. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Glass slides are loaded manually into the slide feeder (Autoloader) which is a component
of the Aperio AT2 DX scanner as a batch. With AutoLoader, the scanner automatically
loads each slide in the batch to the stage and scans the glass slide to generate WSI image.
After the scanning of all slides in the batch is completed, the slides are unloaded from the
scanner and stored according to the lab procedure.
5. Calibration:
The Aperio AT2 DX scanner is calibrated and verified at the factory before shipment. No
further manual calibration or verification is required by the customer. Annual preventive
maintenance performed by Leica Biosystems Technical Services is recommended to
ensure the scanner is operating correctly. The scanner provides automatic calibration and
verification every time a slide is scanned by performing calibration during the scan.
The monitors provided with the Aperio AT2 DX System have been calibrated at the
factory and may require periodic re-calibration in the field by authorized Leica
Biosystems technicians. The user should not attempt to change the monitor settings as
doing so may interfere with the monitor calibration.
The ImageScope DX application does not require calibration.
6. Quality Control:
It is the responsibility of the laboratory staff to conduct and maintain quality control of
the slides per their laboratory standards (e.g., staining, cover-slipping, barcode
placement) prior to loading the slides into the Aperio AT2 DX scanner. After completing
a scan, the lab technician checks image data and image quality using the Aperio
ConsoleDX application installed on the scanner workstation per the instructions for use.
Before review, the pathologist performs quality control on the WSI images of the slide
per instructions for use.
P. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data Not Covered In The
“Performance Characteristics” Section above:
Not applicable
Q. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and it satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Parts 801 and 809, as
applicable, and the special controls for this device type under 21 CFR 864.3700.
R. Conclusion:
20

--- Page 21 ---
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a
substantial equivalence decision.
21