
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K190225
B Applicant
Seventh Sense Biosystems, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
TAP Blood Collection® Device
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1675 -
CH - Clinical
PRJ Class II Blood Specimen
Chemistry
Collection Device
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
To request a modification to the indications for use to include layperson self-administration of
TAP Blood Collection Device to obtain capillary whole blood from the upper arm.
B Measurand:
Not applicable – blood collection system.
C Type of Test:
Not applicable.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PRJ			Class II	21 CFR 862.1675 -
Blood Specimen
Collection Device			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The TAP Blood Collection® Device is a lithium heparin coated single use device intended to be
used to collect capillary blood from the upper arm of adults (21 years of age or older). The TAP
Blood Collection Device is for measurement of HbAlc on blood specimens which can be
collected by self-administration of the TAP Device by a layperson or by a healthcare worker in a
healthcare setting. The collected sample is then transported for analysis in a clinical laboratory
for determination of Hemoglobin Alc (HbA1c) using tests intended for monitoring glycemic
control.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
After sample collection with the first collection unit, repeat sample collection with a collection
unit. If the collection unit fill indicator window does not turn completely red after 10 minutes,
remove the device, replace the gray protector, and the device should be handed to the healthcare
worker.
Select an area on the upper arm that is clear of visible hair. If a suitable site cannot be identified,
shave the sampling site.
Do not use on injured skin (broken, swollen, rash).
Do not use on individuals with known allergies to stainless steel.
D Special Instrument Requirements:
Not applicable.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The TAP Blood Collection® Device (herein “TAP Device”) is a single use, sterilized whole
blood specimen collection and transportation device that uses a combination of two mechanisms,
capillary action and vacuum extraction, to obtain a capillary blood sample from the upper arm.
The device consists of an integrated reservoir with a visual fill indicator window. The device is
designed to collect and contain approximately 100 µL of capillary whole blood. The internal
K190225 - Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
fluid path is coated with 100 units of dry lithium heparin. The top of the device includes a green
button and a fill indicator window. The base of the device includes a release liner that covers a
layer of hydrogel adhesive. The hydrogel adhesive seals to the skin and holds the device in place
during use. The TAP device contains an array of microneedles in order to puncture through the
skin. The microneedles are activated by a spring, released by pushing the green button. The
device is provided sterile in a tray and foil pouch. Instructions on how to collect the capillary
sample are provided in the package insert for healthcare workers.
B Principle of Operation:
The TAP Blood Collection® Device has a mechanism for skin puncture, a mechanism for
drawing blood, an anticoagulant, and can be used for temporary storage of blood (up to six
hours).
The device uses microneedles to create skin punctures for the collection of capillary blood.
When actuated, the device collects the sample in an integrated reservoir, and provides an
indicator to confirm that collection is complete. The device contains lithium heparin as a blood
anticoagulant. The TAP Device is designed for one-time sample extraction and sample can be
removed from the TAP sample access port using a pipette.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
TAP Blood Collection Device
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K161521
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K190225 K161521
Device(s):
TAP Blood Collection® TAP Blood Collection®
Device Trade Name
Device Device
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Device is intended for
Intended Use/Indications
use as a blood specimen Same
For Use
collection device
Blood access via
Collection Method Same
microneedles
Sample obtained by
Mechanism of Blood Draw capillary action and Same
vacuum
K190225 - Page 3 of 6

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device & Predicate		K190225	K161521
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			TAP Blood Collection®
Device	TAP Blood Collection®
Device
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			Device is intended for
use as a blood specimen
collection device	Same
Collection Method			Blood access via
microneedles	Same
Mechanism of Blood Draw			Sample obtained by
capillary action and
vacuum	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Device & Predicate
K190225 K161521
Device(s):
Sample Type Capillary whole blood Same
Puncture Site Upper arm Same
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Indicated User Layperson or healthcare
Healthcare worker
worker
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• CLSI EP15-A3 User Verification of Precision and Estimation of Bias; Approved
Guideline
• ISO 10993-5 Biological evaluation of medical devices Part 5: Tests for in vitro
cytotoxicity
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
To demonstrate lay user intra-operator precision, each participant self-collected up to three
samples using TAP Devices from the same production lot. All collected samples were
transferred to the laboratory and tested for HbA1c using an FDA cleared HbA1c test system.
Participants for whom at least two TAP Device HbA1c results were collected were included
in the analysis (N = 100). Intra-operator precision analysis was based on recommendations in
CLSI EP15-A3 for unbalanced design, stratified between groups with participant HbA1c
averages at or below 7%, and those with HbA1c averages above 7.5%. The analysis
determined the intra-operator coefficient of variation (%CV). The results of the intra-operator
precision study are shown below.
N Average HbA1c Min HbA1c Max HbA1c Within
operator %CV
59 5.8 4.7 6.9 1.06%
41 8.6 7.0 13.3 0.91%
2. Linearity:
Not applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable.
K190225 - Page 4 of 6

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K190225	K161521
	Device(s):			
Sample Type			Capillary whole blood	Same
Puncture Site			Upper arm	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Indicated User			Layperson or healthcare
worker	Healthcare worker

[Table 2 on page 4]
N	Average HbA1c	Min HbA1c	Max HbA1c	Within
				operator %CV
				
59	5.8	4.7	6.9	1.06%
41	8.6	7.0	13.3	0.91%

--- Page 5 ---
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Not applicable.
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
The shelf-life stability study protocols and acceptance criteria of the TAP Device were
reviewed and found to be acceptable. Currently, the real- time stability testing supports a 6
month shelf life when stored at 18-28°C with on-going studies to support up to 12 month
expiration dating.
Additional testing evaluated on the candidate device:
The sponsor conducted additional studies to assess TAP device malfunction rates, sample
volume, sample collection time, and sample hemolysis when sample collection was
performed by lay users. Results for these studies were reviewed and found to be acceptable.
6. Detection Limit:
Not applicable.
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
A total of 104 adult study participants, representing both healthy (non-diabetic) and diabetic
populations from a variety of educational backgrounds, races, and ethnicities were included
in the method comparison study. Each participant self-collected a blood sample with the TAP
Device and a healthcare professional collected one venipuncture sample from each
participant. All TAP Device and venous blood samples were tested within 6 hours of the
draw using an FDA cleared HbA1c test system for the method comparison analysis. The
HbA1c test results from venous blood sample was compared to results obtained from the
TAP Device blood collection.
A regression analysis was performed using the Passing-Bablok regression. The results are
summarized in the following table:
95% CI 95% CI
N Slope Intercept HbA1c range (%)
for Slope for Intercept
91 1.0 (1.0, 1.0) 0.0 (0.0, 0.0) (4.7, 13.3)
The resulting linear regression analysis was used to calculate the systematic difference at
theoretical HbA1c values of 5.0%, 6.5%, and 12.0%. The results showed minimal bias
between the TAP and venipuncture HbA1c test results across the range of HbA1c values.
K190225 - Page 5 of 6

[Table 1 on page 5]
		95% CI		95% CI	
N	Slope		Intercept		HbA1c range (%)
		for Slope		for Intercept	
					
91	1.0	(1.0, 1.0)	0.0	(0.0, 0.0)	(4.7, 13.3)

--- Page 6 ---
An additional study was performed to assess if lay user individuals can successfully use the
TAP Device to self-collect blood samples for HbA1c testing using the instructions for use.
Results of the lay user study indicated 90% of the 40 participants in the lay user study
successfully self-collected a capillary blood sample of sufficient quality by following the
directions included with the TAP device.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable. The TAP device is intended for the collection of lithium heparinized capillary
whole blood only.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable.
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not applicable.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Not applicable.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K190225 - Page 6 of 6