
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(K): DEVICE MODIFICATION
OIR DECISION SUMMARY
510(k) Number: K190879
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device.
K182098, N Latex FLC kappa
N Latex FLC lambda
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
This change was for the previously cleared N Latex FLC kappa and lambda assays on the
Atellica CH Analyzer.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics has provided.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the applicant’s description of the
particular modification and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The applicant has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
1