
--- Page 1 ---
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K191286
B Applicant
Ascensia Diabetes Care
C Proprietary and Established Names
CONTOUR® NEXT Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CONTOUR® NEXT USB Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CONTOUR® NEXT ONE Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CONTOUR® NEXT EZ Blood Glucose Monitoring System
CONTOUR® NEXT LINK Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1345 - CH - Clinical
NBW Class II
Glucose Test System Chemistry
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device: Contour®
Next Blood Glucose Monitoring System (K160430), Contour® Next USB Blood Glucose
Monitoring System (k150942), Contour® Next One Blood Glucose Monitoring System
(k160682), Contour® Next EZ Blood Glucose Monitoring System (k162336), and Contour®
Next Link Wireless Blood Glucose Monitoring System (k160430).
K191286 - Page 1 of 2

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
NBW			Class II	21 CFR 862.1345 -
Glucose Test System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
This change was for: the addition of individually wrapped test strips to be used with each of the
predicate blood glucose monitoring systems.
3. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
4. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
The Contour Blood Glucose Monitoring Systems in this submission are intended for single-
patient use only. Disinfection efficacy studies described for the predicate devices using Clorox®
Germicidal Wipes (EPA registration # 67619-12) demonstrated complete inactivation of live
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) on the materials of the meters. Studies described for the predicate
devices also demonstrate that there was no change in performance or in the external materials of
the meter after 260 cleaning and 260 disinfection cycles (520 cleanings total) designed to
simulate cleaning and disinfection to support 5 years of single-patient use. Labeling was
reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection procedures. There
were no physical changes to the device relative to the predicate devices that would warrant new
disinfection efficacy or robustness testing.
K191286 - Page 2 of 2