
--- Page 1 ---
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K191030
B Applicant
Life Technologies Corporation
C Proprietary and Established Names
Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx
Genetic Analyzer
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
Class II Exempt,
21 CFR 862.2570 -
Meets the limitation CH - Clinical
PCA Instrumentation For Clinical
of exemptions Chemistry
Multiplex Test Systems
862.9(a)
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Change to the instrument software to provide fragment analysis of DNA
B Type of Test:
DNA Genetic Analyzer
K191030 - Page 1 of 6

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PCA			Class II Exempt,
Meets the limitation
of exemptions
862.9(a)	21 CFR 862.2570 -
Instrumentation For Clinical
Multiplex Test Systems			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and the Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL
Dx Genetic Analyzer are in vitro diagnostic devices intended for detection of fluorescently-
labeled human genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) nucleotides by capillary electrophoresis.
The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and the Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL
Dx Genetic Analyzer are indicated for sequencing and fragment analysis using FDA-cleared or
approved assays.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
Device and consumables: The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and Applied
Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx Genetic Analyzer include the following components:
• 8-capillary (Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer) or 24-capillary (Applied
Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx Genetic Analyzer) array and separation matrix to separate
DNA fragments by size (POP™ polymer)
• Reagents and consumables
• Computer workstation and monitor
• Integrated software for instrument control, data collection, quality control, base-calling,
and size-calling of samples
The following consumables are required to operate the instrument:
• 50cm Capillary Array: enables the labeled DNA fragments to migrate from the cathode
toward the anode for sequencing detection
• POP-6™ Polymer: used as a separation matrix to separate DNA fragments by size during
electrophoresis for sequencing
• POP-7™ Polymer: used as a separation matrix for separating DNA fragments by size
during electrophoresis for fragment analysis
• Hi-Di™ Formamide: sample re-suspension solution used for electro-kinetic injection and
denaturing the DNA
• Sequencing Standard v1.1: used for spectral calibration of the instrument and instrument
performance check
• Cathode Buffer Container: pre-filled with running buffer which maintains a source of
ions and the correct pH for electrophoresis
K191030 - Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
• Anode Buffer Container: pre-filled with running buffer which maintains a source of ions
and the correct pH for electrophoresis
• Conditioning Reagent: pre-filled pouch used for priming the polymer pump, washing the
pump between polymer type changes, and during instrument shutdown
• DS-30 Matrix Standard – Dx: used for spectral calibration
• DS-33 Matrix Standard – Dx: used for spectral calibration
• DS-33 GeneScan™ Install Kit – Dx: used for instrument operational qualification
• GeneScan™ 600 LIZ® Size Standard v2.0 – Dx: used as a ladder for sizing DNA
fragments
• Other accessories (e.g. sample plate holders, plate retainers, septa)
Software: The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Series Data Collection Software 3 IVD v3.2
provides control and monitoring of the instrument, collection of data during an injection, and
primary analysis of injection data. The software provides three main functions:
1. Facilitates user entry of specific plate information, including plate and sample IDs, that
are used by the instrument to perform the injection, to map the assay to wells on a plate,
and to perform data reduction.
2. Communicates with the instrument to provide injection parameters and retrieve both raw
instrument data and general instrument status.
3. Provides data reduction of instrument data for storage in sample files. These files can
then be exported for analysis using a secondary, assay-specific software.
Principle of Operation: DNA, labeled with fluorescent dyes, is transferred to a capillary
electrophoresis plate that is used for injection into the instrument. During capillary
electrophoresis, fluorescently labeled PCR products are electrokinetically injected into
capillaries. High voltage is applied to move DNA fragments toward the positive electrode.
Shortly before reaching the positive electrode, the fluorescently labeled DNA fragments,
separated by size, move through the path of a laser beam. The laser beam causes the dyes on the
fragments to fluoresce. A charge coupled device (CCD) camera detects the fluorescence. The
Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Series Data Collection Software 3 IVD v3.2 converts the
fluorescence signal to digital data and performs size calling operations on the data. The raw data
files are then transferred to a computer with the assay-specific software for downstream analyses.
The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and the Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL
Dx Genetic Analyzer were cleared for in vitro diagnostic sequence analysis use in BK110039.
B Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.
K191030 - Page 3 of 6

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.								

--- Page 4 ---
1. Instrument Name:
Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx
Genetic Analyzer
2. Specimen Identification:
The user can use either use a handheld barcode reader or can manually enter the barcodes
identified on the test plates. The user manually enters individual sample IDs per well on a
plate.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Human genomic DNA, from EDTA-anticoagulated whole human blood (fresh or stored
under validated storage conditions) may be isolated using laboratory-validated sample
preparation methodologies (precipitation, silica column, or magnetic beads). PCR products
from FDA- cleared or approved devices intended to be used with the Applied Biosystems™
3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx Genetic Analyzer may be
used immediately or stored under validated storage conditions (protected from light) prior to
capillary electrophoresis analysis. The PCR product is plated onto a 96-well plate for use
with the analyzer.
4. Calibration:
Two calibrations are required to prepare the instrument for sample runs:
1. Spatial calibration: The software uses images collected during the spatial calibration to
establish a relationship between the signal emitted by each capillary and the position
where that signal is detected by the CCD camera. Spatial calibrations should be
performed after removal or replacement of the capillary array. The instrument requires
spatial calibration when it detects a newly installed capillary array. During the
calibration, the software performs quality checks to ensure that sequence and fragment
analysis attributes do not exceed the set thresholds.
2. Spectral calibration: The spectral calibration creates a de-convolution matrix for each
capillary that compensates for dye overlap (reduces raw data from the instrument) in the
dye data stored in each sample file and this information is used to convert the 20-color
data into 4-, 5-, or 6-dye data. Spectral calibration should be performed when a new dye
is used, when the capillary is removed or replaced, or when the user observes a decrease
in spectral separation in the data peaks of raw or analyzed data. The instrument must be
calibrated for the detection of each fluorescent dye used with the assay.
5. Quality Control:
Size standards are present in each sample (internal control) and are labeled with the
fluorescent dye, LIZ, for quality control. The assay may also include external positive and
negative controls in each run for the assay software to interpret sample results correctly.
K191030 - Page 4 of 6

--- Page 5 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
3500 Dx/3500xL Dx Genetic Analyzer CS2 and 3500 Dx Series Software
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
BK110039
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Similarities and Differences
Device & Predicate
K191030 BK110039
Device(s):
For detection of fluorescently labeled
Intended Use Same
DNA by capillary electrophoresis
Analysis Type Sequencing and fragment analysis Sequencing analysis
3500 Series Dx Data Collection 3500 Dx Data Collection
Software
Software 3 IVD v3.2 Software 2011 v1.01
Environment of Use Prescription use Same
Specimen Type Whole blood Same
Input Sample Human genomic DNA Same
Capillary electrophoresis, 8- and 24-
Technology Same
capillary configurations
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• IEC 60601-1-2: Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for basic
safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic disturbances -
Requirements and tests
• UL 61010-1: Safety Requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control,
and Laboratory Use - Part 1: General Requirements
• Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex
Test Systems, 2005
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
The Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx Genetic Analyzer and Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx
Genetic Analyzer were previously legally marketed for sequencing analysis (see BK110039).
The performance information referenced below (AmplideX® Fragile X Dx & Carrier Screen Kit,
approved under DEN190023) supports the performance of the Applied Biosystems™ 3500 Dx
K191030 - Page 5 of 6

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Similarities and Differences				
	Device & Predicate		K191030	BK110039	
	Device(s):				
Intended Use			For detection of fluorescently labeled
DNA by capillary electrophoresis	Same	
Analysis Type			Sequencing and fragment analysis	Sequencing analysis	
Software			3500 Series Dx Data Collection
Software 3 IVD v3.2	3500 Dx Data Collection
Software 2011 v1.01	
Environment of Use			Prescription use	Same	
Specimen Type			Whole blood	Same	
Input Sample			Human genomic DNA	Same	
Technology			Capillary electrophoresis, 8- and 24-
capillary configurations	Same	

--- Page 6 ---
Genetic Analyzer and Applied Biosystems™ 3500xL Dx Genetic Analyzer for DNA fragment
analysis.
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
See DEN190023.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
See DEN190023.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
See DEN190023.
5. Carry-Over:
See DEN190023.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
DNA input, DNA extraction equivalence, and specimen handling stability studies were also
conducted using the assay. See DEN190023.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K191030 - Page 6 of 6