
--- Page 1 ---
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K191370
B Applicant
DreaMed Diabetes Ltd
C Proprietary and Established Names
DreaMed Advisor Pro
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1358 -
Insulin pump therapy
CH - Clinical
QCC Class II adjustment calculator
Chemistry
for healthcare
professionals
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification to a previously cleared device to allow analysis of either continuous glucose
monitor data or self-monitoring blood glucose meter data.
B Type of Test:
Insulin Therapy Adjustment Device
K191370 - Page 1 of 7

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QCC			Class II	21 CFR 862.1358 -
Insulin pump therapy
adjustment calculator
for healthcare
professionals			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
DreaMed Advisor Pro is a decision-support software intended for assisting healthcare
professionals in the management of patients with Type 1 diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as their insulin delivery therapy;
• monitor their glucose levels using CGM and/or self-management blood glucose meter;
• are above the age of 6 and under 65 years old; and
• use rapid acting U-100 insulin analogs in their pump.
DreaMed Advisor Pro is indicated for use by healthcare professionals when analyzing
continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) and pump data
to generate recommendations for optimizing a patient’s insulin pump settings for basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio (CR), and correction factor (CF); without considering the full clinical status of
a particular patient. DreaMed Advisor Pro does not replace clinical judgment.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
• For Prescription Use Only
• For in vitro diagnostic use only
• This device is not intended to to send recommendations directly to patients without initially
being reviewed and approved by a healthcare professional (HCP).
• This device cannot generate recommendations for patients who are unwilling or unable to use
a CGM.
• This device is not intended for use with patients who use automated insulin dosing systems
(e.g., "closed-loop", "artificial pancreas”).
• This device is not intended for use with patients who use insulin(s) other than U-100. The
Advisor Pro is designed to consider the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of U-100
insulin only. Using Advisor Pro with other types of insulin may lead to patient harm.
• This device is not intended for use for patients treated with insulin injections, intravenous
(IV) insulin, or a combination of insulin injections and/or IV insulin and insulin pump
therapy. Since Advisor Pro analyzes the insulin dosing history from the insulin pump, it will
be blind to insulin delivered by injections and/or IV insulin. This could result to a false
conclusion about the changes to the patient's insulin pump settings and may lead to patient
harm.
• This device is not intended for patients using other concomitant non-insulin glucose lowering
therapies. Since the Advisor Pro analyzes the insulin dosing history from the insulin pump,
reducing glucose levels by other means will not be taken into consideration by Advisor Pro.
K191370 - Page 2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---
This could result to a false conclusion about the changes to the patient's insulin pump settings
and may lead to patient harm.
• This device is not intended for use with patients under the age of 6 or above the age of 65.
• This device is not intended for use in pregnant women.
• DreaMed Advisor Pro is not recommended for patients who are taking medications that
might affect CGM/SMBG values, such as acetaminophen. Please refer to the warnings and
contraindications of the patient’s CGM/SMBG to determine whether said medications may
falsely raise glucose readings of the sensor. The level of inaccuracy depends on the amount
of said medication active in the patient’s body and may be different for each person. Using
Advisor Pro in these cases may lead to the potential harm.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
DreaMed Advisor Pro is a software device that is designed to provide insulin therapy adjustment
recommendations to physicians to assist in the management of diabetes for patients with Type 1
diabetes using an insulin pump, and a continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system and/or self-
monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) system.
The DreaMed Advisor Pro gathers and analyzes information inputted through qualified 3rd party
Diabetes Management Systems (DMS), which collect biological input information from insulin
pumps, glucose meters, and continuous glucose monitoring systems. Diabetes device information
required and used by DreaMed Advisor Pro includes glucose readings (either CGM sensor
readings and/or capillary blood glucose measurements), insulin dosing logs, and meal data
during daily routine care.
Following data collection and analysis, the DreaMed Advisor Pro generates results containing
summary data and recommendations for adjustments to a patient’s insulin pump therapy
parameters, including: basal insulin delivery rate(s), insulin to carbohydrate ratio, correction
factor (insulin sensitivity), active insulin time and glucose targets. DreaMed Advisor Pro may
also advise behavioral changes, such as reminders to change infusion sets every 2-3 days, to use
current blood glucose information when calculating a bolus, and about the timing of meal
boluses to avoid hyperglycemia. Results are sent to a qualified 3rd party Diabetes Management
System, which displays results to physicians and a report provided by DreaMed Diabetes. The
physician can approve, reject or change the recommendations and issue the updated treatment
plan to the patient.
K191370 - Page 3 of 7

--- Page 4 ---
B Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.
1. Instrument Name:
DreaMed Advisor Pro
2. Specimen Identification:
Not Applicable.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not Applicable.
4. Calibration:
Not Applicable.
5. Quality Control:
Not Applicable.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
DreaMed Advisor Pro
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
DEN170043
K191370 - Page 4 of 7

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.								

--- Page 5 ---
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K191370 DEN170043
Device(s):
Device Trade Name DreaMed Advisor Pro DreaMed Advisor Pro
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Decision-support for Decision-support for
assisting healthcare assisting healthcare
professionals in the professionals in the
Intended Use/Indications
management of insulin management of insulin
For Use
pump therapy for pump therapy for
patients with Type 1 patients with Type 1
diabetes. diabetes.
Timeframe over which data
21 days 21 days
inputs must be collected
Insulin therapy Insulin therapy
adjustment adjustment
recommendations recommendations
Device outputs and insulin including basal rate, including basal rate,
therapy adjustment carbohydrate ratio carbohydrate ratio
recommendations type (CR), correction factors (CR), correction factors
(CF), and personal (CF), and personal
diabetes management diabetes management
tips. tips.
Algorithmic software Algorithmic software
Principles of Operation
device device
General Device
Characteristic Differences
- Continuous glucose
monitor data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitor data and self- - Continuous glucose
monitoring blood monitor data, or
glucose meter values, - Continuous glucose
Glucose Data Sources
or monitor data and self-
- Self-monitoring blood monitoring blood
glucose meter values glucose meter values
(at least four per day,
spaced at least 160
minutes apart)
K191370 - Page 5 of 7

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		K191370	DEN170043
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			DreaMed Advisor Pro	DreaMed Advisor Pro
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			Decision-support for
assisting healthcare
professionals in the
management of insulin
pump therapy for
patients with Type 1
diabetes.	Decision-support for
assisting healthcare
professionals in the
management of insulin
pump therapy for
patients with Type 1
diabetes.
Timeframe over which data
inputs must be collected			21 days	21 days
Device outputs and insulin
therapy adjustment
recommendations type			Insulin therapy
adjustment
recommendations
including basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio
(CR), correction factors
(CF), and personal
diabetes management
tips.	Insulin therapy
adjustment
recommendations
including basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio
(CR), correction factors
(CF), and personal
diabetes management
tips.
Principles of Operation			Algorithmic software
device	Algorithmic software
device
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Glucose Data Sources			- Continuous glucose
monitor data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitor data and self-
monitoring blood
glucose meter values,
or
- Self-monitoring blood
glucose meter values
(at least four per day,
spaced at least 160
minutes apart)	- Continuous glucose
monitor data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitor data and self-
monitoring blood
glucose meter values

--- Page 6 ---
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
Special controls established under DEN170043
ISO 14971:2007; Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
ISO 15223-1:2016; Medical Devices – Symbols to be Used with Medical Device Labels,
Labeling and Information to be Supplied – Part 1: General Requirements
IEC 62304:2006 – Medical Devices Software – Software Lifecycle Processes
IEC 62366-1:2015 - Medical Devices - Part 1: Application of Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices
ISO 14155 - Clinical Investigation Of Medical Devices For Human Subjects - Good Clinical
Practice
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable.
2. Linearity:
Not Applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not Applicable.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not Applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
Not Applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Clinical Performance:
One study was conducted to evaluate the DreaMed Advisor Pro in the clinical use setting. The
study of 15 health care providers compared differences in the use of DreaMed Advisor Pro
between expert endocrinologists and the DreaMed Advisor Pro when only self-monitoring blood
glucose (SMBG) data and insulin pump data were used. No continuous glucose monitor data was
used for this study.
K191370 - Page 6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
The study was an expert diabetes physician survey, conducted at centers in Croatia, Spain,
Finland, Serbia, Italy, Greece, Belgium, South Africa, Czech Republic, United Arab Emirates
and Israel, with a total of 17 physicians participating. Uploads of 15 patients (all with Type 1
Diabetes utilizing an insulin pump) including data of 3 weeks of SMBG and insulin pump data
were assessed. Each of the 17 experts received 15 anonymized PDF files with patient data and
general information about the patient including the patient’s gender, age, HbA1c, weight, height
and BMI as well as details about the current pump settings of the patient (i.e. basal rate plan,
carbohydrates to insulin ratio plan (CR), correction factor plan (CF), bolus calculator glucose
targets and active insulin time). Each expert was asked to provide her/his proposed
recommended changes to insulin pump settings as well as state if any behavioral or lifestyle
changes are recommended. All recommendations were recorded in a designated form provided to
the expert. The results were compared to the Advisor Pro automated recommendations. The
recommendations from the physicians at each site were also compared. The study results indicate
that the recommendations of the DreaMed Advisor Pro were generally similar to the
recommendations of expert physicians with respect to the basal rate as well as the carbohydrate
ratio (CR) and correction factor (CF).
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K191370 - Page 7 of 7