
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K192817
B Applicant
Meridian Bioscience, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Curian HpSA, Curian Analyzer
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3110 -
LYR Class I, reserved Campylobacter fetus MI - Microbiology
Serological Reagents
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
To obtain a substantial equivalence determination for the detection of Helicobacter pylori
antigens in human stool.
B Measurand:
H. pylori antigen
C Type of Test:
Lateral flow fluorescent immunoassay (FIA)
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
LYR			Class I, reserved	21 CFR 866.3110 -
Campylobacter fetus
Serological Reagents			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
Curian HpSA, for use with the Curian Analyzer, is a rapid, qualitative, fluorescent immunoassay
for the detection of Helicobacter pylori antigen in human stool. Test results are intended to aid in
the diagnosis of H. pylori infection and to demonstrate loss of H. pylori antigen following
treatment. Accepted medical practice recommends that testing by any current method, to confirm
eradication, be done at least four weeks following completion of therapy. Test results should be
taken into consideration by the physician in conjuction with the patient history and symptoms.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
The Curian HpSA assay can only be run on the Curian Analyzer.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The Curian HpSA assay consists of a test strip enclosed in a plastic frame (test card). The test
card contains a test line and control line. The Curian HpSA assay utilizes antibodies specific for
H. pylori antigen in human fecal specimens. The H. pylori antigen (if present) binds to the H.
pylori detector antibody conjugated to fluorescent particles, forming a complex. As the sample
moves through the test strip, the H. pylori capture antibody, bound to the assay membrane at the
test line of the strip, binds the complex and yields a fluorescent test line. As the mobile phase
continues to move further up the test card, the control capture antibody, bound to the assay
membrane at the control line of the strip, binds the control detector antibody conjugated to
fluorescent particles. A line at the control position of the test strip should be present each time a
sample or external control is tested. If the control line is not generated, adequate sample flow has
not occurred, and the Curian Analyzer will consider the test invalid.
B Principle of Operation:
See Section IV.A above.
C Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.
1. Instrument Name:
Curian Analyzer
K192817 - Page 2 of 11

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a computer,
webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or mobile device
using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software development processes
for this line of product types.								

--- Page 3 ---
2. Specimen Identification:
Specimen identification information is entered on the Curian Analyzer using the onscreen
keyboard.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Following specimen collection, a Curian HpSA sample collection brush is placed by the user
into a stool specimen to coat the bristles of the brush, which is then inserted into an uncapped
Curian HpSA Aioprep sample preparation device (included with the Curian HpSA assay).
After insertion into the Aioprep, the handle of the collection brush is snapped off, the
Aioprep device is recapped, and vortexed for five seconds. Using both hands, the user
squeezes the Aioprep to add seven drops of patient specimen/reagent into the sample port of
the Curian HpSA test card. If operating the Curian Analyzer in the “Incubate and Analyze”
mode, the test card is inserted into the Curian Analyzer, after which all further steps are
automated. If operating the analyzer in “Analyze Now” mode, the test card is incubated at
19-27ºC on the benchtop for 20 minutes before insertion into the Curian Analyzer. If a
patient specimen cannot be tested immediately/ as soon as possible after collection, the
specimen may be held for up to 72 hours at 2-8ºC or frozen for up to 14 days at -20ºC prior
to testing.
4. Calibration:
The Curian Analyzer is factory calibrated and does not require calibration or adjustments by
the end user during day-to-day operations. See section 5 below.
5. Quality Control:
Curian Analyzer Controls
Internal Control
The analyzer automatically performs a self-test to monitor internal functions, including
operation of the onboard computer, integrity of the file system, available memory, and power
regulation. The self-test is automatically performed each time the analyzer is turned on, every
24 hours during operation, and at wakeup after more than 24 hours of being idle. If the self-
test fails, a warning or fault message will be displayed. In the case of warnings, the user may
proceed with testing but should address the warning according to the Curian Analyzer
package insert Operator’s Manual recommendations. In the case of faults, the user will be
locked out of testing until the item is resolved.
External Control
An instrument check (IC) is performed to confirm proper function of the Curian Analyzer’s
optical system and analytical capabilities. To perform an instrument check, a fluorescent IC
card is inserted into the analyzer and read. An IC must be performed at least once every 30
days. If this time period has been exceeded or the IC test fails, users will be locked out of
testing until the IC test is re-run and passed.
K192817 - Page 3 of 11

--- Page 4 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
PREMIER Platinum HpSA PLUS
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K182559
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Similarities
Curian HpSA, Curian PREMIER Platinum HpSA
Device & Predicate
Analyzer PLUS
Device(s):
K192817 (Device) K182559 (Predicate)
Curian HpSA, for use with
the Curian Analyzer, is a
rapid, qualitative,
fluorescent immunoassay
for the detection of The Premier Platinum HpSA
PLUS enzyme immunoassay
Helicobacter pylori antigen
(EIA) is an in vitro
in human stool. Test results
qualitative procedure for the
are intended to aid in the
detection of Helicobacter
diagnosis of H. pylori
pylori antigens in human
infection and to
stool. Test results are
demonstrate loss of H.
intended to aid in the
Intended pylori antigen following
diagnosis of H. pylori
Use/Indications for treatment. Accepted
infection and to monitor
Use medical practice
response during and post-
recommends that testing by
therapy in patients. Accepted
any current method, to
medical practice recommends
confirm eradication, be
that testing by any current
done at least four weeks method, to confirm
following completion of eradication, be done at least
therapy. Test results should four weeks following
be taken into consideration completion of therapy.
by the physician in
conjuction with the patient
history and symptoms.
Measurand H. pylori stool antigen Same
Specimen Type Unpreserved human stool Same
Intended Use Persons suspected of having
Same
Population H. pylori infection
Type of Test Qualitative Same
Positive and Negative
Quality Control Controls are provided in the Same
kit
Kit Storage Refrigerated (2 – 8ºC) Same
K192817 - Page 4 of 11

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Similarities						
Device & Predicate
Device(s):			Curian HpSA, Curian			PREMIER Platinum HpSA	
			Analyzer			PLUS	
			K192817 (Device)			K182559 (Predicate)	
Intended
Use/Indications for
Use		Curian HpSA, for use with
the Curian Analyzer, is a
rapid, qualitative,
fluorescent immunoassay
for the detection of
Helicobacter pylori antigen
in human stool. Test results
are intended to aid in the
diagnosis of H. pylori
infection and to
demonstrate loss of H.
pylori antigen following
treatment. Accepted
medical practice
recommends that testing by
any current method, to
confirm eradication, be
done at least four weeks
following completion of
therapy. Test results should
be taken into consideration
by the physician in
conjuction with the patient
history and symptoms.			The Premier Platinum HpSA
PLUS enzyme immunoassay
(EIA) is an in vitro
qualitative procedure for the
detection of Helicobacter
pylori antigens in human
stool. Test results are
intended to aid in the
diagnosis of H. pylori
infection and to monitor
response during and post-
therapy in patients. Accepted
medical practice recommends
that testing by any current
method, to confirm
eradication, be done at least
four weeks following
completion of therapy.		
Measurand		H. pylori stool antigen			Same		
Specimen Type		Unpreserved human stool			Same		
Intended Use
Population		Persons suspected of having
H. pylori infection			Same		
Type of Test		Qualitative			Same		
Quality Control		Positive and Negative
Controls are provided in the
kit			Same		
Kit Storage		Refrigerated (2 – 8ºC)			Same		

[Table 2 on page 4]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):

--- Page 5 ---
Differences
Curian HpSA, Curian PREMIER Platinum HpSA
Device & Predicate
Analyzer PLUS
Device(s):
K192817 (Device) K182559 (Predicate)
Fluorescent immunoassay
Technology Enzyme immunoassay (EIA)
(FIA)
Single use lateral flow
Format Microwell plate
cassette
Read Method Curian Analyzer Visual or Spectrophotometric
Time to Result 20 minutes 15 minutes
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• IEC 19-18. Safety Requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control, and
Laboratory Use – Part 1: General Requirements [Including Corrigendum 1 (2011)].
Version – IEC 61010-1. Third Edition. 2010.
• IEC. Safety Requirements for Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control, and
Laboratory Use – Part 2-101: Particular Requirements for In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD)
Medical Equipment. Version 61010-2-101. 2015.
• ISO 5-40. Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices.
Version 14971. 2007 (R) 2010.
• ISO. In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices – Evaluation of Stability of In Vitro
Diagnostic Reagents. Version 23640. 2015.
• IEC 19-8. Medical Electrical Equipment – Part 1-2: General Requirements for Basic
Safety and Essential Performance – Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic Disturbances –
Requirements and Tests. Version 60601-1-2. 2014.
• Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control, and Laboratory Use - EMC
Requirements. Version 61326-1. 2013.
• Electrical Equipment for Measurement, Control, and Laboratory Use - EMC
Requirements - Part 2: In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) Medical Equipment. Version 61326-2-
6. 2013.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Reproducibility of the Curian HpSA assay was assessed across three testing sites. Each site
conducted testing using three Curian HpSA kit lots on three independent Curian Analyzers
(one per site). Testing was performed by two operators per site over the course of five days
for a total of 540 data points (180 per site). Each operator was supplied with a panel of
blinded specimens prior to testing. The specimen panels were tested according to the Curian
HpSA package insert instructions.
Contrived panel members were prepared by spiking purified flagellar antigen (prepared from
H. pylori ATCC 43504 type strain) into negative diluted natural stool (i.e., 70% stool, 30%
K192817 - Page 5 of 11

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Differences							
Device & Predicate
Device(s):				Curian HpSA, Curian			PREMIER Platinum HpSA	
				Analyzer			PLUS	
				K192817 (Device)			K182559 (Predicate)	
Technology				Fluorescent immunoassay		Enzyme immunoassay (EIA)		
				(FIA)				
Format				Single use lateral flow		Microwell plate		
				cassette				
	Read Method			Curian Analyzer			Visual or Spectrophotometric	
	Time to Result			20 minutes			15 minutes	

[Table 2 on page 5]
Device & Predicate
Device(s):

--- Page 6 ---
physiological saline) at antigen concentrations above, near and below the assay limit of
detection for H. pylori antigen. Diluted natural stool matrix was used because the consistency
of neat stool creates challenges when attempting to generate dilutions for analytical testing
(for more information, see the matrix equivalency study described in Section VII.B.2). Each
panel consisted of one true negative, five high negatives (0.5x LoD), five low positives (1.5x
LoD), and five moderate positive (3x LoD) samples, that were randomly sorted within each
panel. Negative and positive controls were run on each day of testing.
The moderate positive and low positive panel members were positive at 99.3% (149/150) and
at 98.0% (147/150), respectively. The high negative and true negative panel members were
negative at 88.7% (133/150) and at 96.7% (29/30), respectively. All positive and negative
controls yielded the expected result. Reproducibility was unaffected by Curian HpSA kit lot
or Curian Analyzer. These results are acceptable.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Cross-Reactivity and Microbial Interference
The Curian HpSA test was evaluated for cross-reactivity with the bacteria, fungi, and viruses
listed in Table 1 below. H. pylori purified flagellar antigen prepared as described above was
spiked at 3x LoD into diluted natural stool matrix negative for H. pylori. Bacteria and fungi
were spiked at a concentration >1.0 x 107 CFU/mL while viruses were spiked at a
concentration >1.0 x 105 TCID50 units per mL. For microbial interference testing, H. pylori
purified flagellar antigen prepared as described above was spiked at 3x LoD into diluted stool
matrix containing non-target organisms (see Table 1). No cross-reactivity or microbial
interference was observed.
Table 1. Organisms Evaluated for Cross-Reactivity
Organism
Aeromonas hydrophila Proteus vulgaris
Bacillus cereus Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Borrelia burgdorferi Salmonella spp. Dublin
Campylobacter coli Salmonella spp. Hilversum
Campylobacter jejuni Salmonella spp. Minnesota
Candida albicans Salmonella typhimurium Group B
Citrobacter freundii Shigella boydii
Clostridioides (Clostridium) difficile Shigella dysenteriae
Clostridium perfringens Shigella flexneri
Enterobacter cloacae Shigella sonnei
Enterococcus faecalis Staphylococcus aureus
Escherichia coli Staphylococcus aureus Cowan 1
Escherichia coli O157:H7 Staphylococcus epidermidis
Escherichia fergusonii Yersinia enterocolitica
Haemophilus influenzae Adenovirus 40
Klebsiella pneumoniae Rotavirus
K192817 - Page 6 of 11

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Organism		
Aeromonas hydrophila		Proteus vulgaris	
Bacillus cereus		Pseudomonas aeruginosa	
Borrelia burgdorferi		Salmonella spp. Dublin	
Campylobacter coli		Salmonella spp. Hilversum	
Campylobacter jejuni		Salmonella spp. Minnesota	
Candida albicans		Salmonella typhimurium Group B	
Citrobacter freundii		Shigella boydii	
Clostridioides (Clostridium) difficile		Shigella dysenteriae	
Clostridium perfringens		Shigella flexneri	
Enterobacter cloacae		Shigella sonnei	
Enterococcus faecalis		Staphylococcus aureus	
Escherichia coli		Staphylococcus aureus Cowan 1	
Escherichia coli O157:H7		Staphylococcus epidermidis	
Escherichia fergusonii		Yersinia enterocolitica	
Haemophilus influenzae		Adenovirus 40	
Klebsiella pneumoniae		Rotavirus	

--- Page 7 ---
Interfering Substances
The Curian HpSA test was evaluated for interfering substances with the substances and
concentrations listed in Table 2. For this study, interfering substances were spiked at the
indicated concentrations (see Table 2) into both negative diluted natural stool matrix and
diluted natural stool matrix containing H. pylori purified flagellar antigen at 3x LoD. None of
these substances where shown to interfere with the performance of the Curian HpSA assay.
Table 2. Interfering Substance Panel
Barium sulfate (5% w/v) Mineral Oil (10% v/v)
Benzalkonium Chloride (1% v/v) Mylanta (4.2 mg/mL)
Ciprofloxacin (0.25% w/v) Naproxen Sodium (5% w/v)
Ethanol (1% v/v) Nonoxynol-9 (1% v/v)
Hog gastric mucin (3.5% w/v) Nystatin (1% w/v)
Human blood (40% v/v) Palmitic acid (fecal fat) (20% w/v)
Human hemoglobin (12.5% w/v) Pepto-Bismol (5% v/v)
Human urine (5% v/v) Phenylephrine (1% w/v)
Hydrocortisone (1% w/v) Prilosec OTC (5 mg/mL)
Imodium (5% v/v) Sennosides (1% w/v)
Kaopectate (5%v/v) Simethicone (10% v/v)
Leukocytes (0.05% v/v) Steric acid (fecal fat) (20% w/v)
Mesalazine (10% w/v) Tagamet (5 mg/mL)
Metronidazole (0.25% w/v) TUMS (5 mg/mL)
MiraLAX (7% w/v) Vancomycin (0.25% w/v)
High-Dose Hook Effect/Prozone
A high-dose hook effect (prozone) study was conducted to evaluate potential interference
from high concentrations of H. pylori antigen. Purified H. pylori flagellar antigen prepared as
described above was spiked into negative diluted natural stool matrix and tested in
quintuplicate at concentrations ranging from 51 to 12,500 ng/mL (25– 6250x LoD). No false
negative results suggestive of a high-dose hook effect were observed.
“Analyze Now” and “Incubate and Analyze” Read Modes /Temperature Study
The purpose of this study was to document testing results of the Curian HpSA assay in
Incubate and Analyze and Analyze Now modes on the Curian Analyzer. In the Analyze Now
mode, the cassette with loaded sample was developed for 20 minutes on the bench top before
insertion into the Curian Analyzer for scanning. In Incubate and Analyze mode, the cassette
was placed in the Curian Analyzer immediately and developed for 20 minutes before
scanning. Additionally, testing was performed at different ambient temperatures, including
each of the following environmental conditions: <19°C, 19-27°C, and >27°C.
For this study, contrived samples and clinical specimens (both positive and negative for H.
pylori) were evaluated. Contrived samples were generated by spiking H. pylori purified
flagellar antigen (ATCC 43504) into diluted natural stool matrix at 3x LoD. All positive and
negative samples were in 100% agreement with the expected results regardless of the
temperature and reading mode. This study demonstrated that the correct results can be
obtained with the Curian HpSA assay when the test materials are stored and tested at
temperatures from 19°C to 27°C in both Analyze Nowmode and Incubate and Analyze
modes on the Curian Analyzer.
K192817 - Page 7 of 11

[Table 1 on page 7]
Barium sulfate (5% w/v)	Mineral Oil (10% v/v)
Benzalkonium Chloride (1% v/v)	Mylanta (4.2 mg/mL)
Ciprofloxacin (0.25% w/v)	Naproxen Sodium (5% w/v)
Ethanol (1% v/v)	Nonoxynol-9 (1% v/v)
Hog gastric mucin (3.5% w/v)	Nystatin (1% w/v)
Human blood (40% v/v)	Palmitic acid (fecal fat) (20% w/v)
Human hemoglobin (12.5% w/v)	Pepto-Bismol (5% v/v)
Human urine (5% v/v)	Phenylephrine (1% w/v)
Hydrocortisone (1% w/v)	Prilosec OTC (5 mg/mL)
Imodium (5% v/v)	Sennosides (1% w/v)
Kaopectate (5%v/v)	Simethicone (10% v/v)
Leukocytes (0.05% v/v)	Steric acid (fecal fat) (20% w/v)
Mesalazine (10% w/v)	Tagamet (5 mg/mL)
Metronidazole (0.25% w/v)	TUMS (5 mg/mL)
MiraLAX (7% w/v)	Vancomycin (0.25% w/v)

--- Page 8 ---
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Not applicable
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Curian HpSA Assay Controls
Internal Control
Each Curian HpSA test strip contains an internal control line to confirm correct sample flow
and active reagents for the test run. If the internal control line fluorescence does not meet or
exceed the cut-off level, the result is considered invalid and the test should be repeated.
External Controls
The Curian HpSA kit instructions recommend that external positive and negative controls are
tested with each new kit shipment. One vial of positive control reagent (inactivated H. pylori
purified antigen) is provided with each test kit, and the kit sample diluent buffer serves as the
negative control. The positive and negative controls are intended to ensure that the kit is
functional to produce the expected results. The kit should not be used if either external
control fails to deliver the correct test results.
Sample Stability
Studies were conducted to examine the stability of stool samples when stored refrigerated at
2-8ºC or frozen at -20º. Negative stool samples and contrived positive samples were stored
either refrigerated or frozen/thawed and tested over time with the Curian HpSA assay on the
Curian Analyzer. The positive samples consisted of H. pylori flagellar antigen (ATCC
43504) spiked into negative diluted natural stool matrix at moderate positive (5x LoD), low
positive (2x LoD), and high negative (<1x LoD) concentrations. The study results supported
the package insert recommendation that stool samples can be stored for up to three days
refrigerated at 2-8ºC, up to 14 days frozen at -20ºC, and that stool samples stored at -20ºC
can undergo up to two freeze/thaw cycles.
6. Detection Limit:
Limit of Detection (LoD)
The limit of detection (LoD) for the Curian HpSA test was determined by spiking purified H.
pylori flagellar antigen prepared as described above into negative diluted natural stool
matrix. The initial LoD was established by testing each of five dilutions in triplicate. The
initial LoD concentrations were confirmed by testing an additional 20 replicates at the target
concentrations. The LoD was defined as the lowest concentration at which 95% or more of
the replicates were positive. The LoD for the Curian HpSA test was determined to be 2
ng/mL for H. pylori ATCC 43504.
Inclusivity Study
The reactivity of four additional H. pylori strains (see below) was evaluated for the Curian
HpSA assay. Samples were prepared by spiking negative diluted fecal matrix with each H.
pylori strain at 3x LoD. All strains were detected at 3x LoD except for H. pylori strain ATCC
700392, which was detected at 6x LoD.
K192817 - Page 8 of 11

--- Page 9 ---
H. pylori strains
ATCC 700392 (clade hpEurope)
ATCC 700824 (clade hpAfrica1)
CCUG 38771
CCUG 19087
7. Assay Cut-Off:
To determine the preliminary cut-off the Curian HpSA assay read on the Curian Analyzer, a
panel of clinical negative and contrived positive (1x LoD) stool samples were evaluated. The
initial cut-off was validated during the Method Comparison Study by testing a prospective
population of 542 specimens, of which 73 were positive and 452 were negative by the Curian
HpSA assay. The results of the cut-off study were found to be acceptable.
8. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
9. Carry-Over:
Not applicable
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
The performance of the Curian HpSA assay was evaluated in a multi-site prospective Method
Comparison Study. Three sites in the U.S. used leftover, unpreserved stool specimens from
patients suspected of H. pylori infection and tested the samples with the Curian HpSA.
The Curian HpSA assay results were compared to results from an FDA-cleared H. pylori
stool antigen EIA. Performance of the FDA-cleared comparator EIA was previously
established in comparison to an endoscopy biopsy composite reference method (i.e., culture,
histology, and RUT) for initial H. pylori diagnosis with demonstrated high performance. The
performance of the Curian HpSA assay was reported as positive percent agreement (PPA)
and negative percent agreement (NPA) with the FDA-cleared comparator EIA results.
A total of 542 stool specimens from the intended use population were tested in the study. The
ages of patients ranged from 1 to 93 years. Of the 542 patients tested, 40.6% (220) were
male, and 59.4% (322) were female.
Performance of the Curian HpSA assay is shown in Table 3. The Curian HpSA exhibited a
positive percent agreement (PPA) of 96.1% and a negative percent agreement (NPA) of
97.0%. No difference in test performance was observed based on patient age or gender.
These results were acceptable.
K192817 - Page 9 of 11

--- Page 10 ---
Table 3. Method Comparison Performance of the Curian HpSA Assay
FDA-Cleared H. pylori Antigen EIA
Positive Negative Total
Curian Positive 73 14b 87
HpSA Negative 3a 452 455
Assay Total 76 466 542
a. 2/3 Curian HpSA false negatives were dispositioned as negative by PCR
b. 8/14 Curian HpSA false positives were dispositioned as positive by PCR
95% CI
PPA 96.1% (73/76) 89.0% to 98.6%
NPA 97.0% (452/466) 95.0% to 98.2%
H. pylori antigen detection following treatment
To support the Curian HpSA assay claim that it can be used to “demonstrate loss of H. pylori
antigen following treatment”, FDA considered evidence from the scientific literature and
information from prior FDA reviews and determined that the evidence was sufficient to
support this claim based on the following rationale:
• To our knowledge, there has not been published scientific literature to suggest that H.
pylori flagellar antigen (the antigenic target of H. pylori stool antigen tests) varies
between initial diagnosis and post-therapy (>4 weeks after treatment) populations.
• The Curian HpSA and the predicate/comparator assay are technologically similar, i.e.,
they are both immunoassays, and they both incorporate similar monoclonal detector
and conjugate antibodies for detection of H. pylori flagellar antigen. The monoclonal
antibodies used in the Curian HpSA and the predicate are the most significant
contributor to device performance for this assay; thus, it is expected that these assays
will perform similarly in post-therapy patients.
• Review of published literature submitted by the sponsor in support of this claim
includes numerous prior clinical studies with the predicate/comparator assay tested in
both initial diagnosis and post-therapy cohorts and confirmed that the predicate
performs similarly in both patient populations.
Based on this information, it was determined that it is appropriate to include claims for
antigen detection for both pre- and post-treatment populations (i.e., initial diagnosis and post-
therapy) in the Intended Use for the Curian HpSA.
2. Matrix Comparison:
An equivalency study was conducted to demonstrate that diluted natural stool matrix (i.e.,
liquid) was equivalent to undiluted natural matrix (i.e., solid or semi-solid stool) and was
therefore suitable for use in analytical studies conducted in support of the Curian HpSA
assay. Diluted stool matrix was used because the consistency of neat stool creates challenges
when attempting to generate dilutions for analytical testing.
For this study, diluted natural stool matrix was generated by mixing unpreserved human stool
with physiological saline to form a mixture containing 70% stool and 30% saline. Purified H.
pylori flagellar antigen prepared as described above was spiked into each matrix at a
K192817 - Page 10 of 11

[Table 1 on page 10]
							FDA-Cleared H. pylori Antigen EIA							
							Positive			Negative			Total	
	Curian			Positive		73			14b			87		
	HpSA			Negative		3a			452			455		
	Assay			Total		76			466			542		

[Table 2 on page 10]
						95% CI	
	PPA		96.1%	(73/76)	89.0% to 98.6%		
	NPA		97.0%	(452/466)	95.0% to 98.2%		

--- Page 11 ---
concentration of 3x LoD to generate 20 samples per matrix. Each sample was then tested
with the Curian HpSA assay.
All diluted natural stool matrix and clinical matrix samples yielded positive results on the
Curian HpSA test at this test concentration. Results of this testing demonstrated equivalence
of the diluted matrix with clinical matrix and support the use of this matrix in all analytical
studies.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not applicable
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Studies on the epidemiology of H. pylori have shown that this organism is present worldwide.
Gastritis caused by H. pylori has been shown to correlate with age, ethnic background, family
size and socioeconomic class. The prevalence of H. pylori infection in a given population can
vary from 20% to 90%. In patients diagnosed with duodenal ulcers it has been shown in every
age group to be approximately 80%.
The Curian HpSA assay detects the presence of H. pylori antigens in human stool. The rate of
positivity may vary depending on geographic location, method of specimen collection, handling
and transportation, test employed and general health environment of the patient population under
study.
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Not applicable
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K192817 - Page 11 of 11