
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(K): DEVICE MODIFICATION
OIR DECISION SUMMARY
510(k) Number: ____K192259__________
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the applicant’s own class
II or class I devices requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(k) number of the applicant’s previously cleared device. (For a preamendments
device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
K172174
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
2. Applicant’s statement that the INDICATION/INTENDED USE of the modified device as
described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which includes
instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available, advertisements or promotional materials
(labeling changes are permitted as long as they do not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
The changes were for
• New LCD panel for display PP27QHD
• Implementation Unique Device Identification (UDI) in product labeling
• SQL/Windows servers, review browser and viewer client application
Verification and validation activities are performed for every change to Philips IntelliSite
Pathology Solution. The verification and validation procedures, methods and acceptance criteria
for product changes remain the same as those performed for and described in the predicate device,
K172174.
4. Comparison Information (similarities and differences) to applicant’s legally marketed predicate
device for technical performance characteristics of the display and operating system and
programming language.
Subject device
Item Predicate device (K172174)
(K192259)
Device Name Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solutio Same
1

[Table 1 on page 1]
Item	Predicate device (K172174)	Subject device
(K192259)
Device Name	Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solutio	Same

--- Page 2 ---
The Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
(PIPS) is an automated digital slide creation,
viewing, and management system. The PIPS
is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist to review and interpret
digital images of surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is not
intended for use with frozen section, cytology,
or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
Intended Use /
Same
Indications for Use The PIPS comprises the Image Management
System (IMS), the Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
and Display. The PIPS is for creation and
viewing of digital images of scanned glass
slides that would otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by conventional light
microscopy. It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure the
validity of the interpretation of images
obtained using PIPS.
• Panel type: Color LCD
• Technology: IPS technology with a-Si
LCD Panel technical
Thin Film Transistor Same
characteristics
• Physical display size: 648.5 mm x 423
mm x 91.3 mm (with backlight disc)
LCD Panel
Bi-Search Korea Inc./LG display Co., Ltd. Innolux Corporation
manufacturer
Microsoft SQL
SQL server Microsoft SQL server 2008
server 2014
Windows server
Windows server Windows server 2008R2
2012R2
Server processor Server software 64-
Server software 32-bit
architecture bit
Operating system Windows 7, 8, 8.1 and 10 Unchanged
Google Chrome,
Internet Explorer,
Review browser Google Chrome and Internet Explorer
Mozilla FireFox and
Microsoft Edge
Viewer client
Silverlight HTML
application
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on the
device and its components, and the results of the analysis
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied
Risk assessments for LCD panel changes were performed to assess the impact and potential risks that
may exist due to the new LCD panel for PP27QHD. The Risk Analyses took into account device hazards
associated with the intended use of the device. This safety risk assessment did not reveal any new safety
2

[Table 1 on page 2]
Intended Use /
Indications for Use	The Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
(PIPS) is an automated digital slide creation,
viewing, and management system. The PIPS
is intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist to review and interpret
digital images of surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is not
intended for use with frozen section, cytology,
or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image Management
System (IMS), the Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
and Display. The PIPS is for creation and
viewing of digital images of scanned glass
slides that would otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by conventional light
microscopy. It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure the
validity of the interpretation of images
obtained using PIPS.	Same
LCD Panel technical
characteristics	• Panel type: Color LCD
• Technology: IPS technology with a-Si
Thin Film Transistor
• Physical display size: 648.5 mm x 423
mm x 91.3 mm (with backlight disc)	Same
LCD Panel
manufacturer	Bi-Search Korea Inc./LG display Co., Ltd.	Innolux Corporation
SQL server	Microsoft SQL server 2008	Microsoft SQL
server 2014
Windows server	Windows server 2008R2	Windows server
2012R2
Server processor
architecture	Server software 32-bit	Server software 64-
bit
Operating system	Windows 7, 8, 8.1 and 10	Unchanged
Review browser	Google Chrome and Internet Explorer	Google Chrome,
Internet Explorer,
Mozilla FireFox and
Microsoft Edge
Viewer client
application	Silverlight	HTML

--- Page 3 ---
risks or changes to existing safety risks for the display. The risk profiles remain identical and it was
concluded that the display with new panel is safe to be used as a component of PIPS.
The following verification and validation studies were performed:
• Non-Clinical performance testing based on the outcome of the safety risk assessement and the
test methods described in FDA Guidance “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital
Pathology Whole Slide Imaging Devices” issued April 20, 2016. The protocol, test methods
and acceptance criteria used are the same as those used in predicate device submission
K172174.
Safety testing
o
Testing of display device characteristics
o
 Spatial resolution
 Pixel defects
 Temporal response
 Grayscale
 Luminance uniformity and Mura test
 Stability of luminance and chromaticity
 Specular and diffuse reflection coefficients
 Gray tracking
 Color scale response
 sRGB (standard Red, Green, Blue) color gamut
For each test, acceptance criteria were identified and observed results were compared to expected
results. All acceptance criteria were met and all tests passed.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication/intended
use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the applicant’s description of the
particular modification(s) and the comparative information between the modified and unmodified
devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not changed. The applicant has
provided the design control information as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I
recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their
preamendment) device.
3