
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K193483
B Applicant
Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Basal-IQ Technology
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1356 -
Interoperable CH - Clinical
QJS Class II
Automated Glycemic Chemistry
Controller
21 CFR 868.1890 -
Predictive pulmonary- CH - Clinical
NDC Class II
function value Chemistry
calculator
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New Device
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QJS			Class II	21 CFR 862.1356 -
Interoperable
Automated Glycemic
Controller			CH - Clinical
Chemistry
NDC			Class II	21 CFR 868.1890 -
Predictive pulmonary-
function value
calculator			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
B Type of Test:
Not applicable
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
Basal-IQ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose monitors
(iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically suspend delivery of
insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted glucose values.
Basal-IQ technology is intended for the management of diabetes mellitus in persons six years of
age and greater.
Basal-IQ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.
Basal-IQ technology is indicated for use with NovoLog or Humalog U-100 insulin.
The bolus calculator is indicated for the management of diabetes by people with diabetes by
calculating an insulin dose or carbohydrate intake based on user entered data.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
The pump is not intended for anyone unable or unwilling to:
• Test blood glucose (BG) levels as recommended by a healthcare provider
• Maintain sufficient diabetes selfcare skills
• See a healthcare provider(s) regularly
The user must also have adequate vision and/or hearing in order to recognize pump alerts.
The t:slim X2 pump, transmitter, and sensor must be removed before Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (MRI), Computed Tomography (CT) scan, or diathermy treatment. Exposure to MRI,
CT, or diathermy treatment can damage the components.
ONLY use U-100 Humalog or NovoLog with your pump.
Only U-100 Humalog and NovoLog have been tested and found to be compatible for use in the
pump. Use of insulin with lesser or greater concentration can result in under delivery or over
delivery of insulin. This can cause hypoglycemia (low BG) or hyperglycemia (high BG) events.
ALWAYS use cartridges manufactured by Tandem Diabetes Care. Use of any other cartridge
brand may result in over delivery or under delivery of insulin. This can cause hypoglycemia (low
BG) or hyperglycemia (high BG) events.
K193483 - Page 2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---
DO NOT reuse cartridges. Reuse of cartridges may result in over delivery or under delivery of
insulin. This can cause hypoglycemia (low BG) or hyperglycemia (high BG) events.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
Device Description
Basal‐IQ technology is a Predictive Low Glucose Suspend (PLGS) algorithm for the
management of diabetes mellitus and is compatible with an Alternate Controller Enabled
Infusion Pump (cleared under 21 CFR 880.5730)(ACE pump). Basal-IQ technology is only
compatible with the Tandem t:slim X2 insulin pump (DEN180058). The Basal-IQ software and
algorithm can receive interstitial sensor glucose values from a compatible iCGM system (cleared
under 21 CFR 862.1355), via Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) communication. Compatible iCGM
systems are cleared and marketed separately from the Basal‐IQ algorithm and are identified in
device labeling.
Basal‐IQ assesses glucose information provided by a paired iCGM and sends commands to a
compatible ACE pump to temporarily suspend insulin delivery in cases of impending or detected
low blood glucose. Every 5 minutes, the Basal‐IQ feature assesses glucose information provided
by the iCGM to predict whether glucose values will fall below 80 mg/dL in the next 30 minutes
or detect if glucose levels are currently below 70 mg/dL. Under these conditions it will command
the compatible pump to suspend insulin delivery; otherwise insulin delivery continues as normal.
After insulin delivery is suspended, insulin delivery resumption is commended when the system
detects glucose values begin to rise. A sustained suspension period when blood glucose is above
the sensor suspend threshold is mitigated by a maximum suspend time where Basal‐IQ will
command resume insulin delivery after 120 minutes of suspension within a 150 minute window.
The Basal‐IQ technology uses CGM sensor readings to send commands to a compatible insulin
pump to stop and resume insulin based on the current sensor value and a 30 minute future
predicted value along with the following rules:
1. Insulin delivery is suspended if the current CGM sensor reading is less than 70 mg/dL
2. Insulin delivery is suspended if the glucose value is predicted to be less than 80 mg/dL in 30
minutes.
3. Basal insulin delivery is resumed once the current CGM sensor reading increases compared
to the previous reading.
4. Basal insulin delivery will also be resumed if the 30 minute predicted CGM reading is above
80 mg/dL, even if the CGM reading has not increased compared to the previous reading.
5. Basal insulin delivery is resumed if insulin delivery has been suspended for 2 hours in a 2.5
hour window.
The software comprising the Basal‐IQ algorithm also includes an insulin bolus dose calculator.
This calculator is for assisting patients with Type 1 diabetes who use insulin pumps as their
insulin delivery therapy. It is used to calculate insulin bolus doses of rapid acting U‐100 insulin
analogs (Humalog and Novolog). The bolus calculator is used with manually-inputted glucose
values and pump insulin delivery data to generate bolus size recommendations.
K193483 - Page 3 of 7

--- Page 4 ---
B Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a
computer, webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or
mobile device using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
development processes for this line of product types.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Control-IQ Technology, InPen Dose Calculator
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
DEN190034, K190487
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K193483 DEN190034
Device(s):
Device Trade Name Basal‐IQ Technology Control‐IQ Technology
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Intended to
Intended to
automatically command
automatically command
suspension and
basal and bolus insulin
resumption of basal
Intended Use/Indications delivery from a
insulin delivery from a
For Use compatible ACE pump
compatible ACE pump
based on glucose values
based on glucose values
from a compatible
from a compatible
iCGM.
iCGM.
Commands insulin
suspension when trending
Yes Same
or found low CGM
reading
An Alternate Controller
Enabled Infusion Pump
Intended Hardware Device Same
(cleared under 21 CFR
880.5730)
K193483 - Page 4 of 7

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a
computer, webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or
mobile device using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
development processes for this line of product types.								

[Table 2 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K193483	DEN190034
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Basal‐IQ Technology	Control‐IQ Technology
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			Intended to
automatically command
suspension and
resumption of basal
insulin delivery from a
compatible ACE pump
based on glucose values
from a compatible
iCGM.	Intended to
automatically command
basal and bolus insulin
delivery from a
compatible ACE pump
based on glucose values
from a compatible
iCGM.
Commands insulin
suspension when trending
or found low CGM
reading			Yes	Same
Intended Hardware Device			An Alternate Controller
Enabled Infusion Pump
(cleared under 21 CFR
880.5730)	Same

--- Page 5 ---
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Auto‐populates the Bolus
Calculator with CGM No Yes
values
Commands modified basal
insulin delivery (beyond
No Yes
suspend) based on CGM
readings
Commands adjusted basal
or bolus insulin based on No Yes
high CGM readings
Predicate Device Subject Device
(K190487, InPen Dose (K193483)
Calculator)
Intended Use/Indications For calculating an insulin For calculating an insulin
For Use dose based on user entered dose based on user entered
data.
data.
Prescription Use Yes Yes
User Group Diabetes patients treated Diabetes patients treated
with multiple daily insulin with the insulin pump into
injection (MDI) therapy which the calculator is
integrated
Communication with No Yes, the insulin pump into
insulin pumps which the
calculator is integrated
Wireless Connectivity Bluetooth Low Energy No
(BLE)
Control or effect blood No No
glucose
measurements
Control or effect No No
insulin delivery
Carbohydrate Calculation based either on Calculations based on
Calculator user entered glucose and user entered carbohydrate
carbohydrates, meal size and glucose data
estimation, or fixed meal
doses.
Manual data entry Yes Yes
Operating platform Android Compatible insulin pump
K193483 - Page 5 of 7

[Table 1 on page 5]
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Auto‐populates the Bolus
Calculator with CGM
values			No	Yes
Commands modified basal
insulin delivery (beyond
suspend) based on CGM
readings			No	Yes
Commands adjusted basal
or bolus insulin based on
high CGM readings			No	Yes

[Table 2 on page 5]
	Predicate Device	Subject Device
	(K190487, InPen Dose	(K193483)
	Calculator)	
Intended Use/Indications
For Use	For calculating an insulin
dose based on user entered
data.	For calculating an insulin
dose based on user entered
data.
Prescription Use	Yes	Yes
User Group	Diabetes patients treated
with multiple daily insulin
injection (MDI) therapy	Diabetes patients treated
with the insulin pump into
which the calculator is
integrated
Communication with
insulin pumps	No	Yes, the insulin pump into
which the
calculator is integrated
Wireless Connectivity	Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE)	No
Control or effect blood
glucose
measurements	No	No
Control or effect
insulin delivery	No	No
Carbohydrate
Calculator	Calculation based either on
user entered glucose and
carbohydrates, meal size
estimation, or fixed meal
doses.	Calculations based on
user entered carbohydrate
and glucose data
Manual data entry	Yes	Yes
Operating platform	Android	Compatible insulin pump

--- Page 6 ---
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
ISO 14971:2007: Medical Devices - Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
FDA Recognition No: 5-40
ANSI/AAMI/IEC 62366-1:2015 Medical Devices – Application of usability engineering to
medical devices
ANSI/AAMI HE75:2009 Human factors engineering, Design of medical devices
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
Basal-IQ technology algorithm was previously approved as part of the T-slim X2 Insulin Pump
with Basal-IQ Technology under P180008. Basal-IQ technology described in this submission
consists of an identical insulin delivery algorithm and capacity for compatibility with an ACE
pump and iCGM. No new non-clinical laboratory studies were conducted to validate the Basal-
IQ technology separately from the system approved in P180008, in order to enable compatibility
with and Alternate Controller Enabled (ACE) Infusion Pump (cleared under 21 CFR 880.5730)
or integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM, under 21CFR 862.1355). The Basal-
IQ technology is the same algorithm as reviewed in P180008, therefore no additional testing was
conducted.
Software modifications were made to the Tandem insulin pump to add the Basal-IQ technology
algorithm. Comprehensive verification and validation testing was conducted to confirm that the
software used in the pump with Basal-IQ technology met all specified requirements and
performed as intended.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Summary of Clinical Testing:
A total of 107 subjects with Type 1 Diabetes were enrolled at 4 sites in the United States (US).
The study was a multi-center, randomized, at home, crossover design evaluation of subjects with
type 1 diabetes. Study subjects enrolled were either insulin pump users, multiple daily injection
of insulin (MDI) users, CGM naïve users (may be pump or MDI users), or experienced CGM
users (may be pump or MDI users). Of the 107 subjects enrolled (over the age of 6 years old)
five subjects did not complete the study.
The 102 study subjects participated in a crossover design study, consisting of two 3- week
periods with the t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Basal-IQ (Basal-IQ enabled) used during one
period and Sensor Augmented Pump (SAP) used during the other period. The crossover design
study was preceded by a run-in phase in which participants received training using the study
devices.
The performance data presented demonstrates that the Basal-IQ technology of the already
approved t:slim X2 Insulin Pump paired with the Dexcom G5 CGM (P140015/S020) can be used
safely and that it functions as intended. The analysis of input specifications is adequate to assure
K193483 - Page 6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
reasonable safety and effectiveness when iCGM sensors are used with the system as well.
Additionally, the performance data demonstrates that the Basal-IQ technology functions as
intended to stop and resume insulin delivery in response to low and high glucose levels,
respectively.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device and met the special
controls for 21 CFR 862.1356.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K193483 - Page 7 of 7