
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I. Background Information:
A. 510(k) Number
K201005
B. Applicant
Paige.AI, Inc.
C. Proprietary and Established Names
FullFocusTM
D. Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
QKQ Class II 21 CFR 864.3700 Pathology
II. Submission/Device Overview:
A. Purpose for Submission:
New device
B. Type of Test:
Not applicable – software-only device
III. Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A. Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QKQ			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700			Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
B. Indication(s) for Use:
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
FullFocus™ is a software only device intended for viewing and management of digital images of
scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. It is an aid to the pathologist to review, interpret, and manage digital images of pathology
slides for primary diagnosis. FullFocus is not intended for use with frozen sections, cytology, or
non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and safeguards
to assure the quality of the images obtained and, where necessary, use conventional light
microscopy review when making a diagnostic decision. FullFocus is intended for use with
Philips Ultra Fast Scanner and monitor displays validated with verified test methods to meet
required performance characteristics.
C. Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV. Device/System Characteristics:
A. Device Description:
FullFocus (version 1.2.1) is a web-based software-only device for viewing and manipulating
digital pathology images of glass slides obtained from the Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
(PIPS) Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) on the monitor displays that are validated with verified test
methods to meet required performance characteristics. FullFocus renders the uploaded slide
images and is an aid to the pathologist to review, interpret and manage digital images of
pathology slides for primary diagnosis.
The subject device is operated as follows:
1. The image acquisition is performed using the predicate device, PIPS UFS. The operator
performs quality control of the digital slides per the instructions of PIPS UFS and lab
specifications to determine if re-scans are necessary.
2. Once slide image is acquired using PIPS UFS, according to its Instructions for Use, and
becomes available in scanner database file systems, a separate medical image
communications software (not part of the device) will automatically initiate uploading the
slide image and corresponding metadata to persistent cloud storage. Integrity checks are
being performed at upload time when data is copied to storage.
3. The reading pathologist uses the subject device to select a case (patient), view the images
and is able to perform the following actions, as needed:
a. Zoom and pan the image
b. Measure distances and areas in the image
c. Annotate images
K201005 - Page 2 of 9

--- Page 3 ---
4. After viewing all images belonging to a particular case (patient), the pathologist will
make a diagnosis.
Minimum System Requirements - Computer Environment
The system requirements are given in Tables 1 through 4 below.
Table 1: WSI scanner(s) that can be used with FullFocus
Manufacturer Model
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V. Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)
Table 2: Monitors that can be used with FullFocus
Manufacturer Model
Barco N.V. PP27QHD
Philips PS27QHDCR
Table 3: Computer environment minimum requirements for FullFocus
Computer Environment Minimum Requirements
Hardware Network bandwidth: 10 Mbps or above
CPU: 2 cores, 1.6 GHz
RAM: 4 GB
Software Browsers:
• Google Chrome (minimum version 83.0.4103.116)
• Microsoft Edge (minimum version 44.18362.449.0)
• Firefox (minimum version 72.0.2)
Table 4: Test methods to be used for evaluating additional monitors.
Minimum
ID Specification Test method
Requirement
1 Warm-up Time +/-1.25% / hour IDMS 10.1
MTF >35% at
2 Resolution TG-18 4.5.4.1.1
Nyquist
Visual assessment – Stuck ON and
3 Pixel defect < 5 pixels Stuck OFF per Defective Pixels
(IDMS 7.6)
4 Gray tracking +/- 0.02 delta-u’v’ AAPM Task Group 18 and 196 Reports
K201005 - Page 3 of 9

[Table 1 on page 3]
Manufacturer	Model
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.	Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS)

[Table 2 on page 3]
Manufacturer	Model
Barco N.V.	PP27QHD
Philips	PS27QHDCR

[Table 3 on page 3]
Computer Environment	Minimum Requirements
Hardware	Network bandwidth: 10 Mbps or above
CPU: 2 cores, 1.6 GHz
RAM: 4 GB
Software	Browsers:
• Google Chrome (minimum version 83.0.4103.116)
• Microsoft Edge (minimum version 44.18362.449.0)
• Firefox (minimum version 72.0.2)

[Table 4 on page 3]
ID	Specification		Minimum		Test method
			Requirement		
1	Warm-up Time	+/-1.25% / hour			IDMS 10.1
2	Resolution	MTF >35% at
Nyquist			TG-18 4.5.4.1.1
3	Pixel defect	< 5 pixels			Visual assessment – Stuck ON and
Stuck OFF per Defective Pixels
(IDMS 7.6)
4	Gray tracking	+/- 0.02 delta-u’v’			AAPM Task Group 18 and 196 Reports

--- Page 4 ---
<= 0.02 delta-u'v'
5 Color Temperature AAPM Task Group 196 report
(D65)
Contrast response deviation calculated by
Grayscale Function –
using TG-18 testing method for all 256
6 Contrast Response +/-20%
levels with the target model according to
Deviation
sRGB
Vantage-Point Suite of Measurement
7 Luminance max >= 350 cd/m2
(IDMS 2.4)
8 Contrast ratio >= 1000:1 Sequential Contrast (IDMS 5.10)
9 Color gamut >= 99% sRGB IDMS 5.18.1
Vantage-Point Suite of Measurement (2.4)
Spatial luminance
10 < 20% IDMS 8.1.2 Sampled Vantage Point
uniformity
Uniformity
Measured using a spectrophotometer over
11 Color error < 4 dE the IEC61966-4 color patches using sRGB
00
color space with D65 white point
Response Time (IDMS 10.2.2)
12 Response time <= 20ms and Gray-to-gray Response time (IDMS
10.2.3) 9x9 points, equal lightness
Specular reflection
13 Specular < 2% IDMS 11.7
coefficient
Diffuse Reflection
14 Diffuse < 4% IDMS 11.3.2
coefficient
B. Instrument Description Information:
Modes of Operation Yes No
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a
computer, webserver, or mobile device?
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or
mobile device using wireless transmission?
Software
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
development processes for this line of product types.
1. Instrument Name:
FullFocusTM
K201005 - Page 4 of 9

[Table 1 on page 4]
5	Color Temperature	<= 0.02 delta-u'v'
(D65)	AAPM Task Group 196 report
6	Grayscale Function –
Contrast Response
Deviation	+/-20%	Contrast response deviation calculated by
using TG-18 testing method for all 256
levels with the target model according to
sRGB
7	Luminance max	>= 350 cd/m2	Vantage-Point Suite of Measurement
(IDMS 2.4)
8	Contrast ratio	>= 1000:1	Sequential Contrast (IDMS 5.10)
9	Color gamut	>= 99% sRGB	IDMS 5.18.1
10	Spatial luminance
uniformity	< 20%	Vantage-Point Suite of Measurement (2.4)
IDMS 8.1.2 Sampled Vantage Point
Uniformity
11	Color error	< 4 dE
00	Measured using a spectrophotometer over
the IEC61966-4 color patches using sRGB
color space with D65 white point
12	Response time	<= 20ms	Response Time (IDMS 10.2.2)
and Gray-to-gray Response time (IDMS
10.2.3) 9x9 points, equal lightness
13	Specular reflection
coefficient	Specular < 2%	IDMS 11.7
14	Diffuse Reflection
coefficient	Diffuse < 4%	IDMS 11.3.2

[Table 2 on page 4]
	Modes of Operation			Yes			No	
Does the applicant’s device contain the ability to transmit data to a
computer, webserver, or mobile device?								
Does the applicant’s device transmit data to a computer, webserver, or
mobile device using wireless transmission?								
	Software							
FDA has reviewed applicant’s Hazard Analysis and software
development processes for this line of product types.								

--- Page 5 ---
2. Specimen Identification:
The FullFocus uses digital pathology images obtained from the Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) of Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stained glass
slides. The reading pathologist selects a case (patient) from a worklist external to the subject
device whereby the subject device fetches the associated images from the external image
storage. The scanned images are identified based on the previously assigned specimen
identifier.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling and handling are performed upstream and independent of the use of the
subject device. Specimen sampling includes biopsy or resection specimens which are
processed using histology techniques. The FFPE tissue section is H&E stained. Digital
images are then obtained from these glass slides using the PIPS UFS.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable
5. Quality Control:
The subject device receives whole-slide images from the Paige (image) storage. All WSI
files are quality-controlled images acquired from the scanner according the scanner’s
instructions for use. The subject device specific quality control measures are as follows:
• View pathology images - Every pathologist should perform this test on review
workstation before reading pathology images using the subject device to ensure that
all scanned slide images have been imported and for every case, view the thumbnails
in the pathology image window to verify that each slide that should be in the case is
present (manually verifying tissue block and staining information from LIS).
Additional details of the quality control procedures are provided in the device Instructions for
Use.
V. Substantial Equivalence Information:
A. Predicate Device Name(s):
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
B. Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
DEN160056
K201005 - Page 5 of 9

--- Page 6 ---
C. Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K201005 DEN160056
Device(s):
Device Trade Name FullFocusTM Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
FullFocus is a software-only The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
device intended for viewing Solution (PIPS) is an automated
and management of digital digital slide creation, viewing, and
images of scanned surgical
management system. The PIPS is
pathology slides prepared from
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
formalin-fixed paraffin
an aid to the pathologist to review
embedded (FFPE) tissue. It is
and interpret digital images of
an aid to the pathologist to
surgical pathology slides prepared
review, interpret, and manage
from formalin-fixed paraffin
digital images of pathology
embedded (FFPE) tissue.
slides for primary diagnosis.
FullFocus is not intended for The PIPS is not intended for use with
use with frozen sections, frozen section, cytology, or non-
cytology, or non-FFPE FFPE hematopathology specimens.
hematopathology specimens. The PIPS comprises the Image
Intended Use
Management System (IMS), the
It is the responsibility of a Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
qualified pathologist to employ Display. The PIPS is for creation and
appropriate procedures and viewing of digital images of scanned
safeguards to assure the quality glass slides that would otherwise be
of the images obtained and, appropriate for manual visualization
where necessary, use by conventional light microscopy. It
conventional light microscopy is the responsibility of a qualified
review when making a pathologist to employ appropriate
diagnostic decision. FullFocus procedures and safeguards to assure
is intended for use with Philips the validity of the interpretation of
Ultra Fast Scanner and monitor images obtained using PIPS.
displays validated with verified
test methods to meet required
performance characteristics.
Surgical pathology slides
Specimen Type
prepared from FFPE tissue Surgical pathology slides prepared
(scanned digital images is the from FFPE tissue
starting point)
Image file format iSyntax Same
K201005 - Page 6 of 9

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Device & Predicate		K201005	DEN160056
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			FullFocusTM	Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Similarities			
Intended Use			FullFocus is a software-only
device intended for viewing
and management of digital
images of scanned surgical
pathology slides prepared from
formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue. It is
an aid to the pathologist to
review, interpret, and manage
digital images of pathology
slides for primary diagnosis.
FullFocus is not intended for
use with frozen sections,
cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the quality
of the images obtained and,
where necessary, use
conventional light microscopy
review when making a
diagnostic decision. FullFocus
is intended for use with Philips
Ultra Fast Scanner and monitor
displays validated with verified
test methods to meet required
performance characteristics.	The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated
digital slide creation, viewing, and
management system. The PIPS is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
an aid to the pathologist to review
and interpret digital images of
surgical pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue.
The PIPS is not intended for use with
frozen section, cytology, or non-
FFPE hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS), the
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
Display. The PIPS is for creation and
viewing of digital images of scanned
glass slides that would otherwise be
appropriate for manual visualization
by conventional light microscopy. It
is the responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using PIPS.
Specimen Type			Surgical pathology slides
prepared from FFPE tissue
(scanned digital images is the
starting point)	Surgical pathology slides prepared
from FFPE tissue
Image file format			iSyntax	Same

--- Page 7 ---
Panning, zooming, color
Image Manipulation manipulation function,
Same
Functions annotations, and measurements
(distance & area)
Type of Software Internet browser-based
Same
Application applications
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
FullFocus image viewing Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Device Components
software Management System (IMS), Display
Principle of After WSI images are After WSI images are successfully
Operation successfully acquired by using acquired by using PIPS UFS, the
PIPS UFS, the WSI images are WSI images are stored in IMS
stored in the cloud . During Application Server & Storage
review, the pathologist opens software that is not provided as part
WSI images from storage, of the PIPS, but may be located in a
perform further QC and reads central server room separate from the
WSI images of the slides to workstation with the IMS viewing
make a diagnosis. software and Display. During review,
the pathologist opens WSI images
from IMS Server & Storage, perform
further QC and reads WSI images of
the slides to make a diagnosis.
Image Storage Images are stored in an end user
provided image storage (PIPS IMS
Images are stored in the cloud.
Application Server & Storage)
attached to the local network
PIPS Image Management System
End User’s Interface FullFocus
(IMS)
VI. Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide
Imaging Devices", dated April 20, 2016
2. Special controls under 21 CFR Sec. 864.3700 Whole slide imaging system
3. ISO 14971: Second Edition 2007-03-01 - Medical devices - Applications of risk management to
medical devices
4. ANSI: AAMI IEC 62304: 2006/A1:2016 - Medical device software - Software life cycle
processes
5. ANSI: AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015 - Medical devices - Part 1: Application of usability engineering
to medical devices
6. AAMI TIR 45:2012 - Guidance on the use of AGILE practices in the development of medical
device software
K201005 - Page 7 of 9

[Table 1 on page 7]
Image Manipulation
Functions			Panning, zooming, color
manipulation function,
annotations, and measurements
(distance & area)	Same
Type of Software
Application			Internet browser-based
applications	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Differences			
Device Components			FullFocus image viewing
software	Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Management System (IMS), Display
Principle of
Operation			After WSI images are
successfully acquired by using
PIPS UFS, the WSI images are
stored in the cloud . During
review, the pathologist opens
WSI images from storage,
perform further QC and reads
WSI images of the slides to
make a diagnosis.	After WSI images are successfully
acquired by using PIPS UFS, the
WSI images are stored in IMS
Application Server & Storage
software that is not provided as part
of the PIPS, but may be located in a
central server room separate from the
workstation with the IMS viewing
software and Display. During review,
the pathologist opens WSI images
from IMS Server & Storage, perform
further QC and reads WSI images of
the slides to make a diagnosis.
Image Storage			Images are stored in the cloud.	Images are stored in an end user
provided image storage (PIPS IMS
Application Server & Storage)
attached to the local network
End User’s Interface			FullFocus	PIPS Image Management System
(IMS)

--- Page 8 ---
VII. Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A. Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable
B. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Technical performance testing for FullFocus device was performed. The new device was
compared to the image management software component of the predicate
device. The following testing was performed:
a. Pixel-wise comparison with the predicate device including zooming operations across
multiple tiles and vertical/horizontal stitching seams
The equivalence between the subject and predicate image review manipulation software
{IRMS, as defined in the FDA guidance titled “Guidance for Industry “Technical
Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide Imaging Devices", dated
April 20, 2016 [TPA guidance, IV(A)(9)]} was evaluated by bench testing data based on
pixel-level comparison. The subject IRMS was tested as operating with the intended
components, including the scanner and monitor display to evaluate the pixel-wise
differences. WSI files from 22 FFPE tissue glass slides from different anatomic locations
that were H&E stained were used as the test input. For each region of interest (ROI), the
differences between the views generated by the subject and predicate IRMS were
evaluated with the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) color difference
metric CIEDE2000 (ΔE) for each corresponding pixel pair. The two views generated by
the subject and predicate IRMS were registered and cropped to find the maximum
common areas. The test cases of ROIs included relevant biological features at
magnification levels 20x and 40x. Horizontal/vertical stitching seams between the tiles
were included in the ROIs when possible. The color differences of all pixel pairs within
each ROI were reported. The image data of all ROIs were also provided for verification.
K201005 - Page 8 of 9

--- Page 9 ---
The test results demonstrated that the median ΔE values across all ROIs range from 0.80
ΔE to 3.85 ΔE with a median of 1.72 ΔE and mean of 1.85 ΔE (standard deviation: 0.67
ΔE). The mean ΔE values across all ROIs range from 0.89 ΔE to 4.58 ΔE with a median
of 2.13 ΔE and mean of 2.24 ΔE (standard deviation: 0.81 ΔE). The median ΔE by
browser and magnification was also reported and comparable to overall results.
The subject device has been found to visually adequately reproduce digital pathology
images to human readers with respect to its intended use.
b. Turnaround Time for the image to be fully loaded while opening a slide from a medical
device data system (MDDS) and for panning/zooming
The turnaround times for opening an image and panning have been measured in the
subject device. The subject device has been found to have an acceptable turnaround time
with respect to its intended use for opening the first image, and panning and zooming
within the image.
c. Measurements – area and distance
Measurement accuracy has been verified using a test image containing objects of
known sizes. The following set of tests were used to validate the measurement accuracy
of the subject device.
• Measurements verified using calibration slide with known distances: An image of a
calibration slide with known distances was used to verify the measurement accuracy
of the subject device. Test results showed that the subject device performed accurate
measurements with respect to its intended use.
d. Human Factors Testing
Human factors study designed around critical user tasks and use scenarios performed by
representative users were conducted. A systematic evaluation of task-based usability
including critical tasks required for operation of the device were evaluated at multiple
sites using multiple users. All tasks associated with reviewing and reporting results for
cases including confirmation that all slides belonging to specific cases are reviewed
before reporting results, were included in the study. Overall, the results of the human
factors testing were acceptable.
VIII. Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX. Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K201005 - Page 9 of 9