
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K201476
B Applicant
DreaMed Diabetes Ltd
C Proprietary and Established Names
DreaMed Advisor Pro
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
QCC Class II Clinical Chemistry
Therapy Adjustment Device
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification to a previously cleared device to update the indications for use allowing patients
over 65 years old to use the device.
B Type of Test:
Insulin Therapy Adjustment Device
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QCC			Class II	21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
Therapy Adjustment Device			Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
B Indication(s) for Use:
DreaMed Advisor Pro is a decision-support software intended for assisting healthcare
professionals in the management of patients with Type 1 diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as their insulin delivery therapy;
• monitor their glucose levels using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and/or self-
monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) meter;
• are above the age of 6; and
• use rapid acting U-100 insulin analogs in their pump
DreaMed Advisor Pro is indicated for use by healthcare professionals when analyzing CGM,
SMBG and pump data to generate recommendations for optimizing a patient’s insulin pump
settings for basal rate, Carbohydrate Ratio (CR), and Correction Factor (CF); without
considering the full clinical status of a particular patient. DreaMed Advisor Pro does not replace
clinical judgement.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
• Rx - For Prescription Use Only
• For in vitro diagnostic use only
• This device is not intended to send recommendations directly to patients without initially
being reviewed and approved by a healthcare professional (HCP).
• This device is not intended for use with patients who use automated insulin dosing systems.
(e.g., "closed-loop", "artificial pancreas", see labeling for a list of the contraindicated
devices). Advisor Pro hasn't been tested with these devices. Advisor Pro cannot identify the
pump model or operating mode, and although Advisor Pro has some design mitigations to
help detect when AID systems are used in closed loop mode and will usually prevent the
system from providing recommendations for pump parameter changes, it cannot detect
closed loop insulin delivery 100% of the time. Therefore, pay attention to pump information
and the pump’s operating mode and do not accept Advisor Pro recommendations if the user
was using the AID system in closed loop mode.
• This device is not intended for use with patients who use insulin(s) other than U-100.
Advisor Pro hasn't been tested with other types of insulins and is designed to consider the
pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of U-100 insulin only. Using Advisor Pro with
other types of insulin may lead to potential harm.
• This device is not intended for use with patients treated with insulin injections, intravenous
(IV) insulin, or a combination of insulin injections and/or IV insulin and insulin pump
therapy. Since Advisor Pro analyzes the insulin dosing history from the insulin pump, it will
be blind to insulin delivered by injections and/or IV insulin. This could result to a false
conclusion about the changes to the patient's insulin pump settings and may lead to potential
harm.
• This device is not intended for patients using other concomitant glucose lowering therapies.
Since Advisor Pro analyze the insulin dosing history from the insulin pump, reducing glucose
levels by other means will not be taken into consideration by Advisor Pro. This could result
K201476 - Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
to a false conclusion about the changes to the patient's insulin pump settings and may lead to
potential harm.
• This device is not recommended for pregnant women. Advisor Pro hasn't been tested in this
population.
• This device is not recommended for patients who are taking medications that might affect
CGM/SMBG values. Please refer to the warnings and contraindications of the patient’s
CGM/ blood glucose meter to determine whether said medications may falsely raise glucose
readings. The level of inaccuracy depends on the amount of said medication active in the
patient’s body and may be different for each person. Using Advisor Pro in these cases may
lead to potential harm.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
DreaMed Advisor Pro is a software device that is designed to provide insulin therapy adjustment
recommendations to physicians to assist in the management of diabetes for patients with Type 1
diabetes using an insulin pump, and a continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system and/or self-
monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) system.
The DreaMed Advisor Pro gathers and analyzes information inputted through qualified third
party Diabetes Management Systems (DMS), which collect biological input information from
insulin pumps, glucose meters, and continuous glucose monitoring systems. Diabetes device
information required and used by DreaMed Advisor Pro includes glucose readings (either CGM
sensor readings and/or capillary blood glucose measurements), insulin dosing logs, and meal data
during routine care.
Following data collection and analysis, the DreaMed Advisor Pro generates results containing
summary data and recommendations for adjustments to a patient’s insulin pump therapy
parameters, including: basal insulin delivery rate(s), insulin to carbohydrate ratio, correction
factor (insulin sensitivity), active insulin time and glucose targets. DreaMed Advisor Pro may
also advise behavioral changes, such as reminders to change infusion sets every 2-3 days, to use
current blood glucose information when calculating a bolus, and about the timing of meal
boluses to avoid hyperglycemia. Results are sent to a qualified third party Diabetes Management
System, which displays results to physicians and a report provided by DreaMed Diabetes. The
physician can approve, reject or change the recommendations and issue the updated treatment
plan to the patient.
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
DreaMed Advisor Pro
2. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable.
K201476 - Page 3 of 6

--- Page 4 ---
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable.
5. Quality Control:
Not applicable.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
DreaMed Advisor Pro
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K191370
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K201476 K191370
Device(s):
Device Trade Name DreaMed Advisor Pro DreaMed Advisor Pro
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Intended Use/Indications Same Decision-support for
For Use assisting healthcare
professionals in the
management of insulin
pump therapy for
patients with Type 1
diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as
their insulin delivery
therapy;
• monitor their glucose
levels using CGM
and/or Self-
Management Blood
Glucose (SMBG)
meter; and
• use rapid acting U-100
insulin analogs in their
pump
Timeframe over which data
Same 21 days
inputs must be collected
K201476 - Page 4 of 6

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K201476	K191370
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			DreaMed Advisor Pro	DreaMed Advisor Pro
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			Same	Decision-support for
assisting healthcare
professionals in the
management of insulin
pump therapy for
patients with Type 1
diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as
their insulin delivery
therapy;
• monitor their glucose
levels using CGM
and/or Self-
Management Blood
Glucose (SMBG)
meter; and
• use rapid acting U-100
insulin analogs in their
pump
Timeframe over which data
inputs must be collected			Same	21 days

--- Page 5 ---
Device & Predicate
K201476 K191370
Device(s):
Insulin therapy
adjustment
recommendations
Device outputs and insulin including basal rate,
therapy adjustment Same carbohydrate ratio
recommendations type (CR), correction factors
(CF), and personal
diabetes management
tips.
Algorithmic software
Principles of Operation Same
device
- Continuous glucose
monitor data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitor data and self-
monitoring blood
Glucose Data Sources Same glucose meter values, or
- Self-monitoring blood
glucose meter values (at
least four per day,
spaced at least 160
minutes apart)
- This device is not
Contraindications for intended for use with
Automated Insulin Dosing Same patients who use
Systems automated insulin
dosing systems.
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Age Range of Intended above the age of 6 and
above the age of 6
Users under 65 years old
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
21 CFR 862.1358 (Special controls established under DEN170043)
ISO 14971:2007; Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
ISO 15223-1:2016; Medical Devices – Symbols to be Used with Medical Device Labels,
Labeling and Information to be Supplied – Part 1: General Requirements
IEC 62304:2006 – Medical Devices Software – Software Lifecycle Processes
K201476 - Page 5 of 6

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		K201476	K191370
	Device(s):			
Device outputs and insulin
therapy adjustment
recommendations type			Same	Insulin therapy
adjustment
recommendations
including basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio
(CR), correction factors
(CF), and personal
diabetes management
tips.
Principles of Operation			Same	Algorithmic software
device
Glucose Data Sources			Same	- Continuous glucose
monitor data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitor data and self-
monitoring blood
glucose meter values, or
- Self-monitoring blood
glucose meter values (at
least four per day,
spaced at least 160
minutes apart)
Contraindications for
Automated Insulin Dosing
Systems			Same	- This device is not
intended for use with
patients who use
automated insulin
dosing systems.
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Age Range of Intended
Users			above the age of 6	above the age of 6 and
under 65 years old

--- Page 6 ---
IEC 62366-1:2015 - Medical Devices - Part 1: Application of Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices
ISO 14155 - Clinical Investigation Of Medical Devices For Human Subjects - Good Clinical
Practice
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable.
2. Linearity:
Not Applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not Applicable.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not Applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
Not Applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
A Clinical Impact Assessment for removing the upper age limit of 65 years old was provided in
the submission and found to be acceptable.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K201476 - Page 6 of 6