
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K203184
B Applicant
Sebia
C Proprietary and Established Names
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.5510 -
CFF Class II Immunoglobulins A, G, M, D, and E IM - Immunology
Immunological Test System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device
B Measurand:
Monoclonal immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, IgM) and light chains (kappa, lambda) in serum
C Type of Test:
Qualitative
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
CFF			Class II	21 CFR 866.5510 -
Immunoglobulins A, G, M, D, and E
Immunological Test System			IM - Immunology

--- Page 2 ---
A Intended Use(s):
The HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit is intended for the qualitative detection of monoclonal
proteins in human serum by immunofixation electrophoresis. The HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab
kit is to be used in conjunction with the HYDRAGEL IF kit and the semi-automated
HYDRASYS 2 electrophoresis apparatus. The electropherograms are evaluated visually for the
presence of specific reactions with the suspect monoclonal proteins. The HYDRASHIFT 2/4
isatuximab kit removes the isatuximab IgG kappa interference and enables the visual evaluation
of the presence or absence of monoclonal proteins on the HYDRAGEL IF kits in patients who
have received isatuximab therapy.
For In Vitro Diagnostic use. For Prescription Use Only.
B Indication(s) for Use:
Same as Intended Use(s) above.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx – For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
HYDRASYS 2 electrophoresis apparatus
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
Reagents and materials supplied in the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kits include the following:
Items (40 tests)
Anti-isatuximab antiserum (ready to use) 1 vial, 0.8 mL
Sample diluent (ready to use) 1 vial, 2.2 mL
Green applicators (ready to use) 2 packs of 10 (15 teeth)
Reagents required but not supplied include the following:
Items
HYDRAGEL 2 or 4 IF Acid Violet – Dynamic Mask
Antisera and fixative for immunofixation IF – Dynamic Mask
Or
HYDRAGEL 2 or 4 IF Acid Violet – Standard mask
Antisera and fixative for immunofixation IF – Standard Mask
And
Isatuximab CONTROL
Destaining solution
HYDRASYS wash solution
HYDRAGEL IF sample diluent
FLUIDIL
K203184 - Page 2 of 11

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Items			(40 tests)	
Anti-isatuximab antiserum (ready to use)			1 vial, 0.8 mL		
Sample diluent (ready to use)			1 vial, 2.2 mL		
Green applicators (ready to use)			2 packs of 10 (15 teeth)		

[Table 2 on page 2]
	Items	
HYDRAGEL 2 or 4 IF Acid Violet – Dynamic Mask		
Antisera and fixative for immunofixation IF – Dynamic Mask		
Or		
HYDRAGEL 2 or 4 IF Acid Violet – Standard mask		
Antisera and fixative for immunofixation IF – Standard Mask		
And		
Isatuximab CONTROL		
Destaining solution		
HYDRASYS wash solution		
HYDRAGEL IF sample diluent		
FLUIDIL		

--- Page 3 ---
Dithiothreitol (DTT) diluent (IF/IT)
Dithiothreitol (DTT)
Beta-Mercaptoethanol
Equipment and accessories required but not supplied:
1. HYDRASYS 2 System SEBIA: HYDRASYS 2 SCAN, HYDRASYS 2, HYDRASYS 2
SCAN FOCUSING or HYDRASYS 2 FOCUSING.
2. HYDRASHIFT 2/4 Accessories which contain: one applicator carrier specific for the
HYDRASHIFT isatuximab procedure and 2 guides for anti-isatuximab antiserum application
on 15 teeth green applicator.
3. Wet Storage Chamber, supplied with HYDRASYS 2.
4. Container Kit supplied with HYDRASYS 2.
5. Template guide Bar SEBIA supplied with HYDRASYS 2.
6. Accessory Kit for HYDRASYS IF, or Dynamic mask.
7. Pipettes: 10 μL, 20 μL, 100 μL and 200 μL.
B Principle of Operation:
Abnormal bands in serum protein electropherograms (SPEP), primarily those in the beta globulin
and gamma globulin zones, are suspected to be monoclonal proteins (M-proteins, paraproteins,
monoclonal immunoglobulins). The presence of monoclonal protein as indicated by SPEP leads
to testing of sample with an immunofixation (IF) technique to detect and identify the monoclonal
protein components, using the HYDRAGEL IF assay.
Isatuximab is a human therapeutic IgG kappa monoclonal antibody and as such, during the
clinical monitoring of patients treated with isatuximab, this antibody is visualized as a band
detected by serum protein electrophoresis and immunofixation in the gamma region. The
presence of isatuximab can be interpreted as an endogenous IgG kappa monoclonal protein, and
thus confound the clinical interpretation of the assay results.
The HYDRASHIFT isatuximab immunofixation procedure performed on the HYDRAGEL IF
2/4 gel is based on the creation of an isatuximab/anti-isatuximab antibody complex that is shifted
outside the gammaglobulin zone. With the HYDRASHIFT isatuximab procedure, the
isatuximab/anti-isatuximab antibody complex is visualized in alpha-1 zone on the IgG and
Kappa immunofixation tracks and the isatuximab interference is removed from the gamma zone.
This can allow for the visualization of any endogenous IgG kappa monoclonal proteins by IF that
may have been masked by the endogenous isatuximab.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
HYDRAGEL IF
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K960669
K203184 - Page 3 of 11

[Table 1 on page 3]
Dithiothreitol (DTT) diluent (IF/IT)
Dithiothreitol (DTT)
Beta-Mercaptoethanol

--- Page 4 ---
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate K203184 K960669
Device(s):
Device Trade
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab HYDRAGEL IF
Name
General Device Characteristic Similarities
The HYDRAGEL 1 IF, 2 IF, 4 IF
and 9 IF kits are designed for
The HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab
detection of monoclonal proteins
kit is intended for the qualitative
in human serum and urine by
detection of monoclonal proteins in
immunofixation electrophoresis.
human serum by immunofixation
The kits are used in conjunction
electrophoresis. The HYDRASHIFT
with the semi-automated
2/4 isatuximab kit is to be used in
HYDRASYS electrophoresis
conjunction with the HYDRAGEL IF
apparatus. The proteins,
kit and the semi-automated
separated by electrophoresis on
HYDRASYS 2 electrophoresis
alkaline buffered agarose gels,
apparatus. The electropherograms are
are incubated with individual
Intended Use / evaluated visually for the presence of
antisera that are specific against
Indications For specific reactions with the suspect
gamma (Ig G), alpha (Ig A) and
Use monoclonal proteins. The
mu (Ig M) heavy chains, and
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit
kappa (free and bound) and
removes the isatuximab IgG kappa
lambda (free and bound) light
interference and enables the visual
chains, respectively. After
evaluation of the presence or absence
removing the non-reacted
of monoclonal proteins on the
proteins, the immunoprecipitates
HYDRAGEL IF kits in patients who
are stained either with acid violet
have received isatuximab therapy.
or amidoblack. The
electrophoregrams are evaluated
For In Vitro Diagnostic use. For
visually for the presence of
Prescription Use Only.
specific reactions with the
suspect monoclonal proteins.
Assay Principle Agarose Gel Electrophoresis Same
Software Program IF Program Same
Reagents
• Gel Kit • Hydragel IF • Same
• Antisera Kit • Antisera and fixative for IF • Same
Visualization of
Acid Violet Gel Staining Same
Target Protein
Gamma (IgG), alpha (IgA), and mu
Antisera (IgM) heavy chains; kappa (free and
Same
Specificity bound) and lambda (free and bound)
light chains.
Results Qualitative Same
K203184 - Page 4 of 11

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device &		K203184	K960669	
	Predicate				
	Device(s):				
Device Trade
Name			HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab	HYDRAGEL IF	
	General Device Characteristic Similarities				
Intended Use /
Indications For
Use			The HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab
kit is intended for the qualitative
detection of monoclonal proteins in
human serum by immunofixation
electrophoresis. The HYDRASHIFT
2/4 isatuximab kit is to be used in
conjunction with the HYDRAGEL IF
kit and the semi-automated
HYDRASYS 2 electrophoresis
apparatus. The electropherograms are
evaluated visually for the presence of
specific reactions with the suspect
monoclonal proteins. The
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit
removes the isatuximab IgG kappa
interference and enables the visual
evaluation of the presence or absence
of monoclonal proteins on the
HYDRAGEL IF kits in patients who
have received isatuximab therapy.
For In Vitro Diagnostic use. For
Prescription Use Only.	The HYDRAGEL 1 IF, 2 IF, 4 IF
and 9 IF kits are designed for
detection of monoclonal proteins
in human serum and urine by
immunofixation electrophoresis.
The kits are used in conjunction
with the semi-automated
HYDRASYS electrophoresis
apparatus. The proteins,
separated by electrophoresis on
alkaline buffered agarose gels,
are incubated with individual
antisera that are specific against
gamma (Ig G), alpha (Ig A) and
mu (Ig M) heavy chains, and
kappa (free and bound) and
lambda (free and bound) light
chains, respectively. After
removing the non-reacted
proteins, the immunoprecipitates
are stained either with acid violet
or amidoblack. The
electrophoregrams are evaluated
visually for the presence of
specific reactions with the
suspect monoclonal proteins.	
Assay Principle			Agarose Gel Electrophoresis	Same	
Software Program			IF Program	Same	
Reagents
• Gel Kit
• Antisera Kit			• Hydragel IF
• Antisera and fixative for IF	• Same
• Same	
Visualization of
Target Protein			Acid Violet Gel Staining	Same	
Antisera
Specificity			Gamma (IgG), alpha (IgA), and mu
(IgM) heavy chains; kappa (free and
bound) and lambda (free and bound)
light chains.	Same	
Results			Qualitative	Same	

--- Page 5 ---
HYDRASYS electrophoresis
Instrument Same
apparatus.
General Device Characteristic Differences
Specimen Type Human Serum Human Serum, Human Urine
Device-Specific
Anti-isatuximab antibody No anti-isatuximab antibody
Reagents
With the Hydrashift 2/4 procedure, the
Isatuximab Band isatuximab band is moved from the Remains in the gamma zone.
gamma zone to the alpha zone.
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
CLSI EP07 3rd Ed. Interference testing in clinical chemistry; Approved Guideline – Third
Edition. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
Unless stated otherwise, all of the results described below met the manufacturer’s pre-
determined acceptance criteria.
1. Precision:
To evaluate precision, a panel of 10 serum samples were tested using the HYDRASHIFT 2/4
isatuximab procedure using either the HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet Standard Mask, or the
HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet Dynamic Mask. The panel of 10 samples contained a normal
isatuximab control, a normal serum control, and eight human serum samples with different
monoclonal protein components. These eight serum samples were analyzed as native samples
or with the addition of an isatuximab spike-in to verify the concordance between native and
spiked samples. The samples tested for precision are described in the table below:
Sample
Sample Type Samples examined
#
1 Normal isatuximab control Native serum
2 Normal serum control Native serum
3 IgG kappa Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
4 IgG lambda Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
5 IgA kappa Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
6 IgA lambda Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
7 IgM kappa Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
8 IgM lambda + IgA kappa Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
9 Free Kappa component Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
10 Free Lambda component Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
K203184 - Page 5 of 11

[Table 1 on page 5]
Instrument		HYDRASYS electrophoresis
apparatus.	Same
	General Device Characteristic Differences		
Specimen Type		Human Serum	Human Serum, Human Urine
Device-Specific
Reagents		Anti-isatuximab antibody	No anti-isatuximab antibody
Isatuximab Band		With the Hydrashift 2/4 procedure, the
isatuximab band is moved from the
gamma zone to the alpha zone.	Remains in the gamma zone.

[Table 2 on page 5]
	Sample		Sample Type	Samples examined
	#			
1			Normal isatuximab control	Native serum
2			Normal serum control	Native serum
3			IgG kappa	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
4			IgG lambda	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
5			IgA kappa	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
6			IgA lambda	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
7			IgM kappa	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
8			IgM lambda + IgA kappa	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
9			Free Kappa component	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum
10			Free Lambda component	Native serum and 1.0 g/L isatuximab-spiked serum

--- Page 6 ---
Within-in run precision (repeatability):
Each of the above 10 samples was tested four times within the same gel. As noted above,
sample #1 and #2 were run without the addition of isatuximab as controls. Samples #3─#10
were run as native samples without isatuximab or with an isatuximab spike-in (1.0 g/L). All
samples were run with both the Standard Mask (SM) and Dynamic Mask (DM) for a total of
eight assessments per sample. The gel results were read and evaluated by two readers for the
presence or absence of monoclonal proteins and the presence of the isatuximab/anti-
isatuximab antibody complex visualized in the alpha-1 zone on the IgG and kappa
immunofixation tracks. The repeatability was evaluated visually for the concordance of
monoclonal bands for each sample. The results showed 100% concordance for each sample,
and between the same sample tested with the SM and DM, and between readers. The results
are summarized below:
• Native samples were 100% concordant when visualized using the SM and DM.
• Replicates of isatuximab spiked samples were 100% concordant between SM and
DM. Samples with monoclonal proteins other than the IgG kappa (isatuximab
monoclonal component) were 100% concordant when compared with native samples.
• An isatuximab/anti-isatuximab band was observed in the alpha-1 zone on the IgG and
kappa immunofixation tracks in isatuximab-spiked samples.
Between-day, between-lot/instrument precision:
To evaluate the total imprecision of between the gel, lot, and instrument components, the
same 10 samples in the format described above were assessed on three HYDRASYS 2
instruments using one HYDRASYS 2/4 isatuxmab lot per instrument, over three working
days. Samples were run with both the HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet Standard Mask (SM)
and HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet Dynamic Mask (DM) for a total of nine assessments per
sample for each method. The normal isatuximab control was assessed on nine gels over three
working days, yielding a total of 27 assessments each using the SM and the DM. In addition,
samples #3─#10 were tested with or without an isatuximab spike-in (1.0 g/L), as described in
the repeatability study. All results were read by two readers. The results were evaluated
visually for the concordance of monoclonal proteins and the presence of isatuximab/anti-
isatuximab antibody complex in the alpha-1 zone for each sample. The results showed 100%
concordance for all of the samples between days, instruments and lots, between SM and DM
visualization methods, and between the two readers.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Endogenous interference:
The performance of the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 Isatuximab procedure was evaluated in the
presence of common interfering factors. Testing was performed using four samples: one
control (isatuximab control) and three samples containing monoclonal components (IgG
kappa; IgA kappa; and IgM kappa). The samples were assessed as native samples or
isatuximab spiked samples (1.0 g/L), in the presence or absence of each of potential
interference compounds with concentrations recommended based on CLSI EP07 3rd Ed. No
K203184 - Page 6 of 11

--- Page 7 ---
interference with the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab procedure was detected for the
following endogenous compounds up to the concentrations indicated below:
Endogenous Interfering Factor Concentration Tested
Unconjugated Bilirubin 20 mg/dL (342µM)
Conjugated Bilirubin 20 mg/dL (342µM)
Triglycerides 3000 mg/dL (33.96 mM)
Hemoglobin 0.2 g/dL
Rheumatoid Factor 2000 IU/mL
Human anti-mouse Antibody (HAMA) 1:640 Titer
Exogenous interference:
The performance of the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab procedure was evaluated in the
presence of potential exogenous interfering factors. Testing was performed using four
samples: one control (isatuximab control), and three samples with monoclonal components
(IgG kappa; IgA kappa; and IgM kappa), native and spiked with isatuximab (1.0 g/L), and in
the presence or absence of the below compounds based on CLSI EP07 3rd Ed Guideline. No
interference was detected for the following exogenous compounds at or below the
concentration indicated:
Exogenous Interfering Factor Maximum Concentration Tested
Pomalidomide 1.0 mg/L
Carfilzomib 1.0 mg/L
Dexamethasone 1.0 mg/L
Ixazomib 1.0 mg/L
Cyclophosphamide 1.0 mg/L
Melphalan 1.0 mg/L
Prednisone 1.0 mg/L
Lenalidomide 4.0 mg/L
Bortezomib 2.0 mg/L
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Not applicable
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Traceability:
The isatuximab control and the anti-isatuximab antibody are traceable to internal reference
controls.
Isatuximab CONTROL:
The isatuximab control is manufactured from a pool of human sera complemented with
isatuximab, which is a therapeutic human IgG kappa monoclonal antibody. The isatuximab
control is in a stabilized lyophilized form and sold separately.
K203184 - Page 7 of 11

[Table 1 on page 7]
	Endogenous Interfering Factor			Concentration Tested	
Unconjugated Bilirubin			20 mg/dL (342µM)		
Conjugated Bilirubin			20 mg/dL (342µM)		
Triglycerides			3000 mg/dL (33.96 mM)		
Hemoglobin			0.2 g/dL		
Rheumatoid Factor			2000 IU/mL		
Human anti-mouse Antibody (HAMA)			1:640 Titer		

[Table 2 on page 7]
	Exogenous Interfering Factor			Maximum Concentration Tested	
Pomalidomide			1.0 mg/L		
Carfilzomib			1.0 mg/L		
Dexamethasone			1.0 mg/L		
Ixazomib			1.0 mg/L		
Cyclophosphamide			1.0 mg/L		
Melphalan			1.0 mg/L		
Prednisone			1.0 mg/L		
Lenalidomide			4.0 mg/L		
Bortezomib			2.0 mg/L		

--- Page 8 ---
The freeze-dried isatuximab control vial must be stored refrigerated (at 2–8°C). It is
recommended to run the isatuximab Control after each change of lot of a reagent (agarose
gel, diluent or antisera).
Stability:
Except for the istuximab control and the anti-isatuximab antibody, the test reagents of
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit were cleared in K960669. All the components are stable until
the expiration date indicated on the kit box or on the component labels.
Kit Stability: To determine the expiration date for the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit
components, including IgG anti-isatuximab antibody and HYDRAGEL IF diluent, an
accelerated and real time stability studies were, or are currently being, performed. Briefly,
IgG anti-isatuixmab reagent was stored for 10 weeks at 15–30°C in an accelerated shelf-life
stability study, or stored for 6 months at 2–8°C in a real time stability study. Similarly, the
stability of HYDRAGEL IF diluent reagent was stored for 3 months at 37°C in an
accelerated stability study and for 6 months at 2–8°C or 30°C in a real time stability. The
results from the accelerated stability studies support the following stability claims:
• IgG anti-isatuximab reagent is stable for up to 2 years at 2–8°C.
• HYDRAGEL IF diluent is stable for up to 3 years at 2–8°C or 3 years at 30°C.
Sample stability: To assess the stability of serum samples before their analysis using the
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit in conjunction with the HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet
Dynamic Mask, six serum specimens with different monoclonal components (IgG kappa,
IgA lambda, IgM kappa, IgG lambda, IgA kappa, and IgM lambda) were spiked with
isatuximab antibody, and stored under various conditions (fresh, 10 days at 2–8°C, 3 days at
15–30°C, 3 months at −18 to −30°C) before being assessed for their monoclonal components
via immunofixation electrophoresis (IFE). The tests were performed by one operator on three
separate days and evaluated for 100% concordance between the reference and test condition.
The results demonstrate that samples are stable under the following conditions:
• Samples are stable for 10 days when stored at 2–8°C
• Samples are stable for 3 days when stored at 15–30°C
• Samples are stable for 3 months when stored at −18°C to −30°C
6. Detection Limit:
Sensitivity:
A sensitivity study was performed in order to determine the threshold detection value for
visualization of the isatuximab/anti-isatuximab antibody complex. Five serum samples
containing different monoclonal gammaglobulinemia components were used in this study
and shown as follows:
Sample Sample Type Total Band Protein Concentration
Sample A High gamma globulin serum pool
Sample B Pooled normal serum
Sample C High IgG kappa 9.3 g/L
Sample D High IgA kappa 38.2 g/L
Sample E High IgM kappa 12.4 g/L
K203184 - Page 8 of 11

[Table 1 on page 8]
	Sample			Sample Type			Total Band Protein Concentration	
Sample A			High gamma globulin serum pool					
Sample B			Pooled normal serum					
Sample C			High IgG kappa			9.3 g/L		
Sample D			High IgA kappa			38.2 g/L		
Sample E			High IgM kappa			12.4 g/L		

--- Page 9 ---
Each of above samples was spiked with different concentrations of isatuximab for six final
concentration points (0.0 g/L, 0.1 g/L, 0.2 g/L, 0.3 g/L, 0.5 g/L, 1.0 g/L, and 3.0 g/L
isatuximab). Each native and isatuximab-spiked serum sample was assessed by one operator
in one run on three instruments utilizing both the SM and the DM methods. The results
showed that the limit of detection for the isatuximab/anti-isatuximab antibody complex in the
alpha-1 zone of the IgG and kappa tracks is 0.3 g/L.
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Not applicable. The detection value for visualization of the isatuximab / anti-isatuximab
antibody complex in the alpha-1 zone of the IgG kappa tracks is 0.3 g/L.
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
Three method comparison studies were conducted to evaluate the performance of the
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit in comparison to the predicate HYDRASYS IF device.
One internal study and two complementary external studies were conducted.
Internal Study:
An internal study was conducted using 53 serum specimens, including 26 normal specimens
and 27 specimens with monoclonal components, and analyzed using the HYDRASHIFT 2/4
isatuximab procedure in conjunction with either HYDRAGEL 2 or 4 IF Acid Violet Standard
Mask or Dynamic Mask for a total of four different configurations in the study. The samples
were evaluated by one operator using two separate HYDRASYS instruments over seven
working days as native specimens or as isatuximab-spiked (1.0 g/L) specimens. The results
demonstrated 100% concordance between the various samples and masking procedures.
The results were summarized as follows:
Initial Isatuximab Spike-in Number of serum samples
Characterization Characterization
Normal Normal 26
IgG kappa IgG kappa 9
IgG lambda IgG lambda 4
IgA kappa IgA kappa 3
IgA lambda IgA lambda 3
IgM kappa IgM kappa 3
IgM lambda IgM lambda 2
Free Kappa Free Kappa 3
Total 53
External studies 1 and 2:
The external method comparison studies were performed at two U.S. sites. A collection of
203 native serum samples from healthy, untreated multiple myeloma, and isatuximab-treated
multiple myeloma donors in complete remission (CR), very good partial response (VGPR),
K203184 - Page 9 of 11

[Table 1 on page 9]
	Initial			Isatuximab Spike-in		Number of serum samples
	Characterization			Characterization		
Normal			Normal			26
IgG kappa			IgG kappa			9
IgG lambda			IgG lambda			4
IgA kappa			IgA kappa			3
IgA lambda			IgA lambda			3
IgM kappa			IgM kappa			3
IgM lambda			IgM lambda			2
Free Kappa			Free Kappa			3
Total						53

--- Page 10 ---
partial response (PR), minimal response (MR), stable disease (SD), and progressive disease
(PD) were evaluated sites 1 and 2. An additional sample was evaluated at site 2 for a total of
204 (203+1) samples. The studies were conducted using the HYDRAGEL 4 IF Acid Violet
Standard Mask and Dynamic Mask kits.
The results were summarized as follows:
Initial Characterization Isatuximab HYDRASHIFT Number of serum
2/4 Characterization samples
2* IgA kappa 2* IgA kappa 1
2* IgG kappa 2* IgG kappa 2
2* IgM kappa + IgG lambda 2* IgM kappa + IgG lambda 1
2* Lambda 2* Lambda 1
IgA kappa IgA kappa 17
IgA kappa + IgG kappa IgA kappa + IgG kappa 1
IgA lambda IgA lambda 10
IgA lambda + IgG lambda IgA lambda + IgG lambda 1
IgA lambda + Lambda IgA lambda + Lambda 4
IgG kappa IgG kappa 45
IgG kappa + IgG lambda IgG kappa + IgG lambda 5
IgG kappa + Kappa IgG kappa + Kappa 1
IgG kappa + Lambda IgG kappa + Lambda 2
IgG lambda IgG lambda 29
IgG lambda + Lambda IgG lambda + Lambda 5
Kappa Kappa 2
Lambda Lambda 8
Normal Normal 68
Total 203
* An asterix (*) indicates multiple distinct molecular weight monoclonal gammaglobulin
proteins. For example, 2* IgA kappa indicates that the sample contained two separate IgA
kappa monoclonal gammaglobulin bands.
Each specimen was assessed for concordance between the disease reference and
HYDRASHIFT 2/4 Isatuximab test analysis. If differences were observed between the two,
the result was considered equivalent if the difference was attributable to the presence of
isatuximab in the serum sample. For example, an IgA kappa sample would be considered
concordant if it contained an isatuxumab monoclonal band when assayed using the
HYDASYS 2/4 IF device, but the isatuximab interference was eliminated when assayed
using the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab test result, yielding an IgA kappa result. For the
purpose of the study, the disease reference condition for the samples was predetermined by a
clinician based on 2016 International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) diagnostic criteria.
The results demonstrated that the samples were 100% concordant between the reference
result and the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab test result in both external studies.
Please note, while the purpose of the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab assay is to detect
endogenous serum monoclonal proteins in the presence of isatuximab by removing
isatuximab interference, if isatuximab is present in the sample at a concentration below the
K203184 - Page 10 of 11

[Table 1 on page 10]
Initial Characterization		Isatuximab HYDRASHIFT			Number of serum	
		2/4 Characterization			samples	
2* IgA kappa	2* IgA kappa			1		
2* IgG kappa	2* IgG kappa			2		
2* IgM kappa + IgG lambda	2* IgM kappa + IgG lambda			1		
2* Lambda	2* Lambda			1		
IgA kappa	IgA kappa			17		
IgA kappa + IgG kappa	IgA kappa + IgG kappa			1		
IgA lambda	IgA lambda			10		
IgA lambda + IgG lambda	IgA lambda + IgG lambda			1		
IgA lambda + Lambda	IgA lambda + Lambda			4		
IgG kappa	IgG kappa			45		
IgG kappa + IgG lambda	IgG kappa + IgG lambda			5		
IgG kappa + Kappa	IgG kappa + Kappa			1		
IgG kappa + Lambda	IgG kappa + Lambda			2		
IgG lambda	IgG lambda			29		
IgG lambda + Lambda	IgG lambda + Lambda			5		
Kappa	Kappa			2		
Lambda	Lambda			8		
Normal	Normal			68		
Total				203		

--- Page 11 ---
limit of detection, an isatuximab/anti-isatuximab band may not be observed. In addition, an
isatuximab/anti-isatuximab band may not be reliably seen in sera obtained from isatuximab
treated multiple myeloma patients that are not in complete (CR) or very good partial response
(VGPR), such as partial response (PR), minimal response (MR), stable disease (SD) or
progressive disease (PD) patients. This information may also be found in the package insert
of the HYDRASHIFT 2/4 isatuximab kit.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not applicable
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Not applicable
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K203184 - Page 11 of 11