
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K210234
B Applicant
Roche Molecular Systems, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
cobas Influenza A/B & RSV Nucleic Acid Test for Use on the cobas Liat System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3980 -
Respiratory Viral Panel
OCC Class II MI - Microbiology
Multiplex Nucleic Acid
Assay
21 CFR 862.2570 -
Instrumentation for
OOI Class II CH - Clinical Chemistry
clinical multiplex test
systems
21 CFR 866.3980 -
Respiratory viral panel
OZE Class II MI - Microbiology
multiplex nucleic acid
assay
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own:
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
OCC			Class II	21 CFR 866.3980 -
Respiratory Viral Panel
Multiplex Nucleic Acid
Assay			MI - Microbiology
OOI			Class II	21 CFR 862.2570 -
Instrumentation for
clinical multiplex test
systems			CH - Clinical Chemistry
OZE			Class II	21 CFR 866.3980 -
Respiratory viral panel
multiplex nucleic acid
assay			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed. This change was for an adjustment to the baseline specification
parameter range for influenza A and influenza B in order to prevent invalid results in
cases of high-titer positive specimens. This change has no effect on interpretation of results
at low concentrations, including near the limit of detection. There is no change to the
specifications for the RSV target. There is no change to the overall result interpretation logic
of the algorithm.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
K210234 - Page 2 of 2