
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K210811
B Applicant
Inspirata, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
QKQ Class II PA - Pathology
Slide Imaging System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device.
B Type of Test:
Not applicable – software only device.
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QKQ			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
Slide Imaging System			PA - Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software is intended for viewing and management of digital images
of scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE)
tissue. It is an aid to the pathologist to review and interpret these digital images for the purposes
of primary diagnosis.
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software is not intended for use with frozen section, cytology, or
non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of the pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and safeguards to
assure the validity of the interpretation of images using Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software.
The Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software consists of the Installed Pathologist Client and the
Pathologist Workstation Web Client. The Installed Pathologist Client is intended for use with
Leica’s Aperio AT2 DX scanner and Dell MR2416 monitor as well as Philips’ Ultra Fast
Scanner and Philips PP27QHD monitor. The Pathologist Workstation Web Clinent is intended
for use with Philips Ultra Fast Scanner and Philips PP27QHD monitor.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software is a client-server software device used for importing,
displaying, navigating, and annotating whole slide images obtained from the Leica Aperio AT2
DX scanner or the Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS) Ultra-Fast Scanner (UFS).
Whole slide images are created by scanning glass microscope slides using a digital slide scanner
which are then imported into the Dynamyx Digital Archive server. Dynamyx uses the image
decoding libraries licensed by Leica and Philips for the native images. Dynamyx then uses
lossless compression to send the image to the Dynamyx viewers.
Whole slide images are viewed in the Dynamyx image viewer window by pathologists for the
purposes of making a primary diagnosis. The pathologist can also navigate (pan and zoom) and
annotate the images.
Dynamyx incorporates typical histology/pathology workflow and is operated as follows:
1. The subject device receives whole slide images from the scanner and extracts a copy of the
images’ metadata. The unaltered images are then sent to the external image storage (Digital
Archive). A copy of the image metadata (e.g., the pixel size) is stored in the subject device’s
database to increase the operational performance (e.g., response times) of Dynamyx.
2. Whole slide images are reviewed first by the scanning technician such as a histologist to
confirm image quality and initiate any slide rescans as necessary prior to being viewed by
pathologists. The digital slide review quality control (QC) status determined by the scanning
technician indicates which whole slide images have been reviewed and have passed QC.
The QC status is available to the reading pathologist.
K210811 - Page 2 of 10

--- Page 3 ---
3. The reading pathologist selects a patient case from a selected worklist within Dynamyx
whereby the case images are retrieved from the digital archive.
4. The reading pathologist uses Dynamyx to view and perform the following actions on the
displayed image:
a. Zoom and pan the image
b. Adjust the apparent image observed magnification level
c. Measure distances and areas
d. Annotate images and cases
5. The above steps are repeated as required.
After viewing all images, the pathologist will render a diagnosis which is documented in a
laboratory information system.
Minimum System Requirements - Computer Environment
The system requirements are given in Tables 1 through 2d below.
Table 1: WSI scanners and displays that can be used with Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software
Manufacturer Model
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V. Scanner: Ultra-Fast Scanner (UFS)
Display: MMPC-4127F1/PP27QHD
Leica Biosystems Imaging, Inc. Scanner: Aperio AT2 DX Slide
Display: MR2416 (Dell)
Note: Philips PP27QHD monitor must be used with Philips Ultra-Fast Scanner and Dell MR2416
monitor must be used with Leica Aperio AT2 DX Scanner. The monitors are not interchangeable.
Table 2a: Computer environment minimum requirements for Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software, Dynamyx Server
Server vCPU Memory Drives
Workflow Server 2 cores Total - 8 GB C Drive - 200 GB
C Drive - 200 GB
SQL Server 2 cores Total - 8 GB E Drive - 600 GB
F Drive - 600 GB
C Drive - 200 GB
Hardware
E Drive - 200 GB
Digital Archive Server 8 cores Total - 16 GB
F Drive - Image Store
(Drive of appropriate size)
C Drive - 200 GB
Web Server 2 cores Total - 8 GB
E Drive - 25 GB
C Drive - 200 GB
Job Agent Server 4 cores Total - 8 GB
K210811 - Page 3 of 10

[Table 1 on page 3]
Manufacturer	Model
Philips Medical Systems Nederland B.V.	Scanner: Ultra-Fast Scanner (UFS)
	Display: MMPC-4127F1/PP27QHD
Leica Biosystems Imaging, Inc.	Scanner: Aperio AT2 DX Slide
	Display: MR2416 (Dell)

[Table 2 on page 3]
Hardware	Server	vCPU	Memory	Drives
				
	Workflow Server	2 cores	Total - 8 GB	C Drive - 200 GB
	SQL Server	2 cores	Total - 8 GB	C Drive - 200 GB
E Drive - 600 GB
F Drive - 600 GB
	Digital Archive Server	8 cores	Total - 16 GB	C Drive - 200 GB
E Drive - 200 GB
F Drive - Image Store
(Drive of appropriate size)
	Web Server	2 cores	Total - 8 GB	C Drive - 200 GB
E Drive - 25 GB
	Job Agent Server	4 cores	Total - 8 GB	C Drive - 200 GB

--- Page 4 ---
Component Version Comments
Software
Database SQL Server 2016 or 2019 Latest patches recommended
Table 2b: Computer environment minimum requirements for Dynamyx Digital
Pathology Software, Histology Workstation
Component Specifications/Application Comments
Processor Intel i5 or greater N/A
Memory 8 GB RAM N/A
7200 RPM or faster disks or Space requirements are
Internal Storage
SSD nominal (<10GB)
Hardware
Network Connectivity 100 Mbps Full Duplex 1Gbps preferred
Video Adapter Web GL compatible N/A
Display If Leica scanner, then use Dell Required for Image QC
MR2416 display review
If Philips scanner, then use
PP27QHD display
Software Operating System Windows 10 Latest patches recommended
Table 2c: Computer environment minimum requirements for Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software, Pathology Workstation (Web based)
Component Specification/Application Comments
Processor Intel i5 or greater N/A
Memory 8 GB RAM N/A
Internal Storage N/A N/A
Hardware
Network Connectivity 100 Mbps Full Duplex N/A
Video Adapter Web GL compatible N/A
If Leica scanner, then use Dell
Display Required for Diagnostic Use
MR2416 display
(Dx)
If Philips scanner, then use
PP27QHD display
Operating System Windows 10 Latest patches recommended
Software
Latest version of browser is
Browser Chrome
recommended
K210811 - Page 4 of 10

[Table 1 on page 4]
Software	Component	Version	Comments
			
	Database	SQL Server 2016 or 2019	Latest patches recommended

[Table 2 on page 4]
	Component	Specifications/Application	Comments
			
	Processor	Intel i5 or greater	N/A
	Memory	8 GB RAM	N/A
		7200 RPM or faster disks or	Space requirements are
	Internal Storage		
		SSD	nominal (<10GB)
			
Hardware			
	Network Connectivity	100 Mbps Full Duplex	1Gbps preferred
			
			
	Video Adapter	Web GL compatible	N/A
			
	Display	If Leica scanner, then use Dell	Required for Image QC
		MR2416 display	review
		If Philips scanner, then use	
		PP27QHD display	
Software	Operating System	Windows 10	Latest patches recommended

[Table 3 on page 4]
Hardware	Component	Specification/Application	Comments
			
	Processor	Intel i5 or greater	N/A
	Memory	8 GB RAM	N/A
	Internal Storage	N/A	N/A
	Network Connectivity	100 Mbps Full Duplex	N/A
	Video Adapter	Web GL compatible	N/A
	Display	If Leica scanner, then use Dell
MR2416 display
If Philips scanner, then use
PP27QHD display	Required for Diagnostic Use
(Dx)
Software	Operating System	Windows 10	Latest patches recommended
	Browser	Chrome	Latest version of browser is
recommended

--- Page 5 ---
Table 2d: Computer environment minimum requirements for Dynamyx Digital
Pathology Software, Pathology Workstation (installed)
Component Specification Comments
Processor Intel i5 or greater N/A
Memory 8 GB RAM N/A
7200 RPM or faster disks or Space requirements are
Internal Storage
SSD nominal (<10GB)
Hardware
Network Connectivity 100 Mbps Full Duplex 1Gbps preferred
Video Adapter Web GL compatible N/A
Display If Leica scanner, then use Dell Required for Diagnostic Use
MR2416 display (Dx)
If Philips scanner, then use
PP27QHD display
Software Operating System Windows 10 Latest patches recommended
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software
2. Specimen Type:
Surgical pathology slides prepared from FFPE tissue
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling and handling are performed upstream and independent of the use of the
subject device. Specimen sampling includes biopsy or resection specimens which are
processed using histology techniques. The FFPE tissue section is H&E stained. Digital
images are them obtained from these glass slides using the PIPS UFS or Leica Aperio AT2
DX Slide Scanner.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable
5. Quality Control:
When used as part of the Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS) system, the following
QC procedure is used: The scanning technician views slide macro images on the Philips’
K210811 - Page 5 of 10

[Table 1 on page 5]
Hardware	Component	Specification	Comments
			
	Processor	Intel i5 or greater	N/A
	Memory	8 GB RAM	N/A
	Internal Storage	7200 RPM or faster disks or
SSD	Space requirements are
nominal (<10GB)
	Network Connectivity	100 Mbps Full Duplex	1Gbps preferred
	Video Adapter	Web GL compatible	N/A
	Display	If Leica scanner, then use Dell
MR2416 display
If Philips scanner, then use
PP27QHD display	Required for Diagnostic Use
(Dx)
Software	Operating System	Windows 10	Latest patches recommended

--- Page 6 ---
Ultra-Fast Scanner interface to confirm all tissue is contained in the scanned area and then
uses the Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software to confirm the scanned image quality (e.g.,
focus, color, stitch errors, missing tissue). The QC status is available to pathologist.
When used with the Leica Aperio AT2 DX System, the following QC procedure is used: The
scanning technician views the slide macro image on the Leica system’s interface to confirm
all tissue is contained in the scanned area and then uses the Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software to confirm the scanned image quality (e.g., focus, color, stitch errors, missing
tissue). The QC status is available to pathologist.
Refer to the Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software user guide for additional information.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution (PIPS)
Aperio AT2 DX System
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
DEN160056
K190332
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate K210811 DEN160056 K190332
Device(s):
Device Trade Dynamyx Digital Pathology Philips IntelliSite Leica Aperio AT2 DX
Name Software Pathology Solution (PIPS) System
General Device Characteristics: Similarities
The Leica Aperio AT2
The Philips IntelliSite
Dynamyx Digital Pathology DX System is an
Pathology Solution (PIPS)
Software is automated digital slide
is an automated digital
intended for viewing and creation and viewing
slide creation, viewing,
management of digital system. The Leica Aperio
and management system.
images of scanned surgical AT2 DX System is
Intended Use/ The PIPS is intended for in
pathology slides prepared intended for in vitro
Indications For Use vitro diagnostic use as an
from formalin fixed, diagnostic use as an aid to
aid to the pathologist to
paraffin embedded (FFPE) the pathologist to review
review and interpret
tissue. and interpret digital
digital images of surgical
It is an aid to the images of surgical
pathology slides prepared
pathologist to review pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed
from formalin-fixed
K210811 - Page 6 of 10

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Device &		K210811	DEN160056	K190332	
	Predicate					
	Device(s):					
Device Trade
Name			Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software	Philips IntelliSite
Pathology Solution (PIPS)	Leica Aperio AT2 DX
System	
	General Device Characteristics: Similarities					
Intended Use/
Indications For Use			Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software is
intended for viewing and
management of digital
images of scanned surgical
pathology slides prepared
from formalin fixed,
paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue.
It is an aid to the
pathologist to review	The Philips IntelliSite
Pathology Solution (PIPS)
is an automated digital
slide creation, viewing,
and management system.
The PIPS is intended for in
vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist to
review and interpret
digital images of surgical
pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed	The Leica Aperio AT2
DX System is an
automated digital slide
creation and viewing
system. The Leica Aperio
AT2 DX System is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic use as an aid to
the pathologist to review
and interpret digital
images of surgical
pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed	

--- Page 7 ---
and interpret these digital paraffin embedded (FFPE) paraffin embedded
images for the purposes of tissue. The PIPS is not (FFPE) tissue. The
primary diagnosis. intended for use with Leica Aperio AT2 DX
Dynamyx Digital Pathology frozen section, cytology, or System is not intended for
Software is not intended for non-FFPE use with frozen section,
use with frozen section, hematopathology cytology, or non-FFPE
cytology, or non-FFPE specimens. hematopathology
hematopathology The PIPS comprises the specimens.
specimens. Image Management The Leica Aperio AT2
It is the responsibility of the System (IMS), the Ultra DX System is composed
pathologist to employ Fast Scanner (UFS) and of the Leica Aperio AT2
appropriate procedures and Display. The PIPS is for DX scanner, the
safeguards to assure the creation and viewing of ImageScope DX review
validity of the interpretation digital images of scanned application and Display.
of images using Dynamyx glass slides that would The Leica Aperio AT2
Digital Pathology Software. otherwise be appropriate DX System is for creation
The Dynamyx Digital for manual visualization by and viewing of digital
Pathology Software consists conventional light images of scanned glass
of the Installed Pathologist microscopy. It is the slides that would
Client and the Pathologist responsibility of a otherwise, be appropriate
Workstation Web Client. qualified pathologist to for manual visualization
The Installed Pathologist employ appropriate by conventional light
Client is intended for use procedures and safeguards microscopy. It is the
with Leica’s Aperio AT2 to assure the validity of the responsibility of a
DX scanner and Dell interpretation of images qualified pathologist to
MR2416 monitor as well as obtained using employ appropriate
Philips’ Ultra Fast Scanner PIPS. procedures and safeguards
and Philips PP27QHD to assure the validity of
monitor. The Pathologist the interpretation of
Workstation Web Clinent is images obtained using
intended for use with the Leica Aperio AT2 DX
Philips’ Ultra Fast Scanner System.
and Philips PP27QHD
monitor.
Surgical pathology slides
Specimen Type prepared from Same Same
FFPE tissue
Images are stored in end
user provided image storage
Image Storage Same Same
attached to the local
network
Panning, zooming, image
Image
adjustments, annotations,
Manipulation Same Same
and distance/area
Functions
measurements
Image Review and During review, the
Same Same
Diagnosis pathologist opens WSI
K210811 - Page 7 of 10

[Table 1 on page 7]
	and interpret these digital
images for the purposes of
primary diagnosis.
Dynamyx Digital Pathology
Software is not intended for
use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology
specimens.
It is the responsibility of the
pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the
validity of the interpretation
of images using Dynamyx
Digital Pathology Software.
The Dynamyx Digital
Pathology Software consists
of the Installed Pathologist
Client and the Pathologist
Workstation Web Client.
The Installed Pathologist
Client is intended for use
with Leica’s Aperio AT2
DX scanner and Dell
MR2416 monitor as well as
Philips’ Ultra Fast Scanner
and Philips PP27QHD
monitor. The Pathologist
Workstation Web Clinent is
intended for use with
Philips’ Ultra Fast Scanner
and Philips PP27QHD
monitor.	paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. The PIPS is not
intended for use with
frozen section, cytology, or
non-FFPE
hematopathology
specimens.
The PIPS comprises the
Image Management
System (IMS), the Ultra
Fast Scanner (UFS) and
Display. The PIPS is for
creation and viewing of
digital images of scanned
glass slides that would
otherwise be appropriate
for manual visualization by
conventional light
microscopy. It is the
responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards
to assure the validity of the
interpretation of images
obtained using
PIPS.	paraffin embedded
(FFPE) tissue. The
Leica Aperio AT2 DX
System is not intended for
use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology
specimens.
The Leica Aperio AT2
DX System is composed
of the Leica Aperio AT2
DX scanner, the
ImageScope DX review
application and Display.
The Leica Aperio AT2
DX System is for creation
and viewing of digital
images of scanned glass
slides that would
otherwise, be appropriate
for manual visualization
by conventional light
microscopy. It is the
responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards
to assure the validity of
the interpretation of
images obtained using
the Leica Aperio AT2 DX
System.
Specimen Type	Surgical pathology slides
prepared from
FFPE tissue	Same	Same
Image Storage	Images are stored in end
user provided image storage
attached to the local
network	Same	Same
Image
Manipulation
Functions	Panning, zooming, image
adjustments, annotations,
and distance/area
measurements	Same	Same
Image Review and
Diagnosis	During review, the
pathologist opens WSI	Same	Same

--- Page 8 ---
images acquired with the
WSI scanner from the
image storage, performs
further QC and interprets
the WSI images to make a
diagnosis
Displays a visual indicator
Diagnostic Status for the
Same Same
of Images diagnostic status of an
image
Full-featured image viewer
with integrated case list
User Interface containing slide Same Same
thumbnails
General Device Characteristic: Differences
Aperio AT2 DX scanner,
Ultra-Fast Scanner (UFS),
Dynamyx digital pathology the ImageScope DX
Device Image Management
software review application and
Components System (IMS), Display
Display
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide
Imaging Devices", dated April 20, 2016
2. ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006 & A1:2016 - Medical device software - Software life cycle
processes
3. ANSI AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015+AMD1:2020 – Application of usability engineering to
medical devices
4. ANSI AAMI ISO 14971: 2019 – Applications of risk management to medical devices
5. AAMI TIR 45:2012 - Guidance on the use of AGILE practices in the development of medical
device software
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable.
K210811 - Page 8 of 10

[Table 1 on page 8]
		images acquired with the
WSI scanner from the
image storage, performs
further QC and interprets
the WSI images to make a
diagnosis			
Diagnostic Status
of Images		Displays a visual indicator
for the
diagnostic status of an
image	Same	Same	
User Interface		Full-featured image viewer
with integrated case list
containing slide
thumbnails	Same	Same	
	General Device Characteristic: Differences				
Device
Components		Dynamyx digital pathology
software	Ultra-Fast Scanner (UFS),
Image Management
System (IMS), Display	Aperio AT2 DX scanner,
the ImageScope DX
review application and
Display	

--- Page 9 ---
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Technical performance testing for Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software device was performed.
The new device was compared to the Image Management Software (IMS) component of the
Philips PIPS device and the ImageScope DX viewer software of Leica Aperio AT2 DX System.
The following testing was performed:
a. Pixel-wise comparison with the predicate device including zooming and panning operations
The equivalence between the subject and predicate image review manipulation software (IRMS,
as defined in the FDA guidance titled “Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance
Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide Imaging Devices", dated April 20, 2016 [TPA
guidance, IV(A)(9)] was supported by bench testing data based on pixel-level comparison. The
subject IRMS was tested as operating with the intended components, including the scanner,
image management system and display. Scanned images from 33 FFPE tissue glass slides from
different anatomic locations were used as the test input. For each region of interest (ROI), the
differences between the views generated by the subject and predicate IRMS were evaluated with
the 1976 International Commission on Illumination (CIE) color difference metric ΔE for each
corresponding pixel pair. The two views generated by the subject and predicate IRMS were
adjusted and registered by using only the graphical user interface without image processing. The
test cases of ROIs included relevant biological features at different magnification levels such as
40x, 20x and 10x. Horizontal/vertical stitching seams between the tiles were included in the
ROIs when possible.
Sixty image pairs at 40x, 20x, and 10x were used to test Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software
Installed Pathologist Client against the predicate Leica AT2 DX. Similarly, sixty image pairs at
40x and 20x were used to test Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software Installed Pathologist Client
against the predicate Philips PIPS. In addition, sixty image pairs at 40x and 20x were used to test
Dynamyx Digital Pathology Software Pathologist Workstation Web Client running in the
Chrome browser against Philips PIPS.
The color differences of all pixels within each ROI were reported. The image data of all ROIs
were also provided for verification. The test results demonstrated that all image pairs are
identical with zero ΔE. The subject device has been found to adequately reproduce digital
pathology images at the pixel level with respect to its intended use.
K210811 - Page 9 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
b. Turnaround Time
Turnaround time test was performed to verify the streaming indicator functionality and to
measure the turnaround time for initial image load, panning via mouse drag and zooming with 10
concurrent users using Leica Aperio AT2 DX scanner images and Philips UFS images. Test
results are acceptable.
c. Measurement Accuracy
Measurement accuracy testing was performed to verify the calculated measurement for each
annotation (e.g., length and area) is accurate to within 5% of the reference measurement using a
certified micron scale image created using a Leica Aperio AT2 DX scanner and a Philips UFS.
Test results showed that the subject device performed accurate measurements with respect to its
intended use.
d. Human Factors (Usability) Testing
Formative and summative usability testing was conducted on the Dynamyx Pathology
Workstation and the Histologist Workstation interfaces in accordance with FDA Guidance on
“Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices.
A systematic evaluation of task-based usability including critical tasks required for operation of
the device were evaluated at multiple sites using multiple users. All tasks associated with
reviewing and reporting results for cases including confirmation that all slides belonging to
specific cases are reviewed before reporting results, were included in the study. Overall, the
results of the human factors testing were acceptable.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K210811 - Page 10 of 10