
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K210561
B Applicant
DreaMed Diabetes Ltd.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Advisor Pro Platform
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
QCC Class II Therapy Adjustment CH - Clinical Chemistry
Device
21 CFR 868.1890 -
NDC Class II Predictive pulmonary- CH - Clinical Chemistry
function value calculator
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification to a previously cleared device to allow patients on Multiple Daily Injection (MDI)
therapy to use the Advisor Pro Algorithm, and to add a bolus dose calculator for users of rapid
acting insulin analogs.
B Type of Test:
Insulin Therapy Adjustment Device
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QCC			Class II	21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
Therapy Adjustment
Device			CH - Clinical Chemistry
NDC			Class II	21 CFR 868.1890 -
Predictive pulmonary-
function value calculator			CH - Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
Advisor Pro Platform
The Advisor Pro Platform is intended for the management of diabetes by people with diabetes
and their health care providers in order to report, log, track, share, monitor and review their data
using the dedicated computer or mobile software. Advisor Pro Platform also enables
communication between people with diabetes and their health care providers as well as among
health care providers.
The Advisor Pro Platform enables the healthcare provider to use the Advisor Pro Algorithms for
treatment recommendations as described below and prescribe the Advisor Pro Bolus Calculator
for patient use.
Advisor Pro Algorithm
Advisor Pro Algorithm is a decision-support software intended for assisting healthcare
professionals in the management of their patients with diabetes who monitor their glucose levels
using continuous glucose monitor (CGM) and/or Self-Monitoring Blood Glucose (SMBG)
meter; and use any of the following insulin types as their therapy to manage glucose levels via
subcutaneous injections or continuous sub-cutaneous insulin infusion (CSII; insulin pump)
reported either manually or automatically:
o Long Acting insulins (for injections only)
o Short acting insulins:
• Rapid acting analogs (for injections and insulin pump according to manufacturer
indications for use)
• Regular human insulin (for injections only)
The Advisor Pro algorithm is intended to be used for patients with:
• Type 1 diabetes over the age of 6 using an insulin pump or subcutaneous insulin
injections.
• Type 2 diabetes over the age of 10 who use subcutaneous insulin injections.
Advisor Pro Algorithm is indicated for use by healthcare professionals when analyzing CGM,
SMBG and/or insulin delivery data to generate recommendations for optimizing a patient’s
K210561 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
insulin treatment plan for basal therapy and/or bolus therapy and/or glucose targets; without
considering the full clinical status of a particular patient. Advisor Pro Algorithm does not replace
clinical judgment.
Advisor Pro Bolus Calculator
The Advisor Pro Bolus Calculator, a component of the DreaMed Diary App, is a diabetes
management tool for people with type 1 diabetes above the age of 6 and type 2 diabetes above
the age of 10, who use subcutaneous insulin injections therapy (not for pump use). This tool can
help calculate their rapid acting analogs for insulin bolus doses based on user-entered blood
glucose and/or meal information.
The initial setup of the user’s treatment plans, and bolus calculator settings must be performed by
a healthcare provider.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
Advisor Pro Algorithm:
For in vitro diagnostic use only
Advisor Pro algorithm is not intended to send recommendations directly to patients without
initially being reviewed and approved by a certified HCP who considers the entire clinical status
of the patient.
Advisor Pro algorithm is not recommended for patients that change their concomitant glucose-
lowering therapies or alter their current therapy dose while using the Advisor Pro Algorithm.
Since Advisor Pro algorithm only analyzes the insulin dosing history data and assumes all other
elements that affect glucose levels are stable, the effect of changing or altering the dose of other
glucose-lowering therapies will not be taken into consideration by Advisor Pro algorithm. This
could result in a false conclusion about the changes to the patient's insulin treatment plan and
may lead to potential harm.Advisor Pro algorithm is not recommended for pregnant women.
Advisor Pro has not been tested in this population.
Advisor Pro algorithm is not intended for use with patients who use automated insulin dosing
(AID) systems (e.g., "closed-loop", "artificial pancreas"). Advisor Pro algorithm hasn't been
tested with these devices. Advisor Pro algorithm cannot identify the pump model or operating
mode, and although Advisor Pro algorithm has some design mitigations to help detect when AID
systems are used in closed loop mode and will usually prevent the system from providing
recommendations for pump parameter changes, it cannot detect closed loop insulin delivery
100% of the time. Therefore, pay attention to pump information and the pump’s operating mode
and do not accept Advisor Pro recommendations if the user was using the AID system in closed
loop mode.
Advisor Pro algorithm is not intended for use with patients who use insulin(s) other than the
types indicated above. Advisor Pro algorithm hasn't been tested with other types of insulins.
Using Advisor Pro algorithm with other types of insulin may lead to potential harm.
Advisor Pro algorithm is not recommended for patients who have changed their insulin type
within the last 21 days. Since Advisor Pro algorithm only analyzes the current plan, the effect of
changing the insulin type during period for analysis is not taken into consideration. This could
K210561 - Page 3 of 8

--- Page 4 ---
result in a false conclusion about the changes to the patient’s insulin treatment plan and may lead
to potential harm.
Advisor Pro algorithm is not intended for use with patients treated with intravenous (IV) insulin
injections, or a combination of insulin injections and/or IV insulin and insulin pump therapy.
Since Advisor Pro algorithm analyzes the insulin dosing history, it assumes a certain insulin
delivery methodology as per the physician settings of the patient profile. Using Advisor Pro
algorithm in the above manner could result in a false conclusion about the changes to the
patient's insulin treatment plan and may lead to potential harm.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The Advisor Pro Platform is a software device that is designed to be a diabetes management
platform. It includes the Advisor Pro Algorithm, the Advisor Pro Bolus Calculator and the
DreaMed Diary App. The Advisor Pro Algorithm provides insulin therapy adjustment
recommendations to healthcare professionals for the management of their patients with diabetes
(Type 1 or Type 2) who monitor their glucose levels using continuous glucose monitor (CGM)
and/or Self-Monitoring Blood Glucose (SMBG) meter and use insulin to manage glucose levels
via subcutaneous injections (multiple daily injections (MDI)) or continuous sub-cutaneous
insulin infusion (CSII, insulin pump) with dosing data reported either manually or automatically.
The DreaMed Diary App allows those people with diabetes who administer Multiple Daily
Injections (MDIs) of insulin to easily log and track blood glucose levels, insulin delivery and
physical activity, as well as carb and meal information, providing that information as input to the
DreaMed Advisor Pro Platform used by their HCP. The Advisor Bolus Calculator is hosted
within the Diary App.
The Advisor Pro Algorithm gathers and analyzes information inputted through the Diabetes
Management Systems (DMS), which collects information from various diabetes devices and data
sources including the DreaMed Diary App. Diabetes device information required and used by
Advisor Pro Algorithm includes glucose readings (either CGM sensor readings and/or capillary
blood glucose measurements), insulin dosing logs, and meal data during daily routine care.
Following data collection and analysis, the Advisor Pro Algorithm generates results containing
summary data and recommendations for adjustments to the patient’s insulin therapy parameters,
including basal insulin delivery rate(s), insulin to carbohydrate ratio and correction factor
(insulin sensitivity) for pump patients; and a daily injection plan for MDI patients including a
basal plan as well as either a sliding scale or insulin to carbohydrate ratio and correction factor
(insulin sensitivity) for bolus injections. Advisor Pro Algorithm may also advise on personalized
diabetes management tips. Results are sent to the Diabetes Management System, which displays
results to physicians and a report provided by the algorithm. The physician can approve, reject or
change the recommendations and issue the updated treatment plan to the patient.
For MDI patients using insulin to carbohydrate ratio and correction factor (insulin sensitivity) for
bolus injections the healthcare provider may prescribe the Advisor Bolus Calculator which is
integrated in the DreaMed Diary App to aid in calculating their bolus injections.
K210561 - Page 4 of 8

--- Page 5 ---
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Advisor Pro Platform
2. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable.
5. Quality Control:
Not applicable.
This medical device product has functions subject to FDA premarket review as well as functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review. For this application, if the product has functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review, FDA assessed those functions only to the extent
that they either could adversely impact the safety and effectiveness of the functions subject to
FDA premarket review or they are included as a labeled positive impact that was considered in
the assessment of the functions subject to FDA premarket review.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
DreaMed Advisor Pro
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K201476
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K210561 K201476
Device(s):
Device Trade Name Advisor Pro Platform DreaMed Advisor Pro
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
Decision-support for
assisting healthcare
professionals in the
Intended Same management of insulin
Use/Indications For Use pump therapy for patients
with Type 1 diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as their
insulin delivery therapy;
K210561 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		K210561	K201476
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Advisor Pro Platform	DreaMed Advisor Pro
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Similarities			
Intended
Use/Indications For Use			Same	Decision-support for
assisting healthcare
professionals in the
management of insulin
pump therapy for patients
with Type 1 diabetes who:
• use insulin pumps as their
insulin delivery therapy;

--- Page 6 ---
• monitor their glucose
levels using CGM and/or
Self-Management Blood
Glucose (SMBG) meter;
and
• use rapid acting U-100
insulin analogs in their
pump
Timeframe over which
data inputs must be Same 21 days
collected
Principles of Operation Algorithmic software device Algorithmic software
(Advisor Pro Algorithm) and device
insulin dose calculator based on
user-entered data (Advisor Pro
Bolus Calculator).
Algorithm:
- Continuous glucose Algorithm:
monitoring system data, or - Continuous glucose
- Continuous glucose monitoring data, or
monitoring system data and - Continuous glucose
self-monitoring blood glucose monitoring data and self-
Glucose Data Sources meter values, or monitoring blood glucose
- Self-monitoring blood glucose meter values, or
meter values (at least three per - Self-monitoring blood
day, spaced at least 210 glucose meter values (at
minutes apart) least four per day, spaced
Bolus Dose Calculator: at least 160 minutes apart)
- user-entered blood glucose
- This device is not
Contraindications for intended for use with
Automated Insulin same patients who use
Dosing Systems automated insulin dosing
systems.
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
Insulin Therapy Same outputs. For pump and Insulin therapy adjustment
Adjustment MDI users. recommendations
Recommendation Types including basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio (CR),
correction factors (CF),
and personal diabetes
management tips.
For pump users only.
K210561 - Page 6 of 8

[Table 1 on page 6]
				• monitor their glucose
levels using CGM and/or
Self-Management Blood
Glucose (SMBG) meter;
and
• use rapid acting U-100
insulin analogs in their
pump
Timeframe over which
data inputs must be
collected			Same	21 days
Principles of Operation			Algorithmic software device
(Advisor Pro Algorithm) and
insulin dose calculator based on
user-entered data (Advisor Pro
Bolus Calculator).	Algorithmic software
device
Glucose Data Sources			Algorithm:
- Continuous glucose
monitoring system data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitoring system data and
self-monitoring blood glucose
meter values, or
- Self-monitoring blood glucose
meter values (at least three per
day, spaced at least 210
minutes apart)
Bolus Dose Calculator:
- user-entered blood glucose	Algorithm:
- Continuous glucose
monitoring data, or
- Continuous glucose
monitoring data and self-
monitoring blood glucose
meter values, or
- Self-monitoring blood
glucose meter values (at
least four per day, spaced
at least 160 minutes apart)
Contraindications for
Automated Insulin
Dosing Systems			same	- This device is not
intended for use with
patients who use
automated insulin dosing
systems.
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Differences			
Insulin Therapy
Adjustment
Recommendation Types			Same outputs. For pump and
MDI users.	Insulin therapy adjustment
recommendations
including basal rate,
carbohydrate ratio (CR),
correction factors (CF),
and personal diabetes
management tips.
For pump users only.

--- Page 7 ---
Bolus Calculator Yes, for MDI users only Not available
Intended to be used for patients
with:
- Type 1 diabetes over the age Intended to be used for
Age Range of Intended
of 6 patients with Type 1
Users
- Type 2 diabetes over the age diabetes above the age of 6
of 10
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
21 CFR 862.1358 (Special controls established under DEN170043)
ISO 14971:2007; Medical Devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices
ISO 15223-1:2016; Medical Devices – Symbols to be Used with Medical Device Labels,
Labeling and Information to be Supplied – Part 1: General Requirements
IEC 62304:2006 – Medical Devices Software – Software Lifecycle Processes
IEC 62366-1:2015 - Medical Devices - Part 1: Application of Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices
IEC 60601-1-6:2010; Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic
safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not Applicable.
2. Linearity:
Not Applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not Applicable.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not Applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
Not Applicable.
K210561 - Page 7 of 8

[Table 1 on page 7]
Bolus Calculator	Yes, for MDI users only	Not available
Age Range of Intended
Users	Intended to be used for patients
with:
- Type 1 diabetes over the age
of 6
- Type 2 diabetes over the age
of 10	Intended to be used for
patients with Type 1
diabetes above the age of 6

--- Page 8 ---
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The sponsor assessed the clinical impact of the design modifications compared to the predicate,
and performed a non-interventional expert survey to evaluate the use of the Advisor Pro
algorithm for MDI users with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Results from these assessments
support that the Advisor Pro Platform, with the modified Advisor Pro Algorithm and the new
Advisor Pro Bolus Calculator, is substantially equivalent to the predicate.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K210561 - Page 8 of 8