
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K210943
B Applicant
Abbott Diabetes Care Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App)
D Regulatory Information
Product Classificatio Regulation
Panel
Code(s) n Section
21 CFR 862.1355 - Integrated Continuous CH - Clinical
QLG Class II
Glucose Monitoring System Chemistry
CH - Clinical
NBW Class II 21 CFR 862.1345 - Glucose test system
Chemistry
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification to an existing device to add the Android mobile app as an alternate primary display,
and to add the FreeStyle Libre 2 MediRx sensor as another compatible continuous glucose
monitoring (CGM) sensor.
B Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product			Classificatio			Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)			n			Section		
QLG			Class II			21 CFR 862.1355 - Integrated Continuous
Glucose Monitoring System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry
NBW			Class II			21 CFR 862.1345 - Glucose test system			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System is a continuous glucose monitoring
(CGM) device with real time alarms capability indicated for the management of diabetes in
persons age 4 and older. It is intended to replace blood glucose testing for diabetes treatment
decisions, unless otherwise indicated.
The System also detects trends and tracks patterns and aids in the detection of episodes of
hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, facilitating both acute and long-term therapy adjustments.
Interpretation of the System readings should be based on the glucose trends and several
sequential readings over time.
The System is also intended to autonomously communicate with digitally connected devices.
The System can be used alone or in conjunction with these digitally connected devices where the
user manually controls actions for therapy decisions.
The System can be used with the FreeStyle Libre 2 Sensor (14 day) or the FreeStyle Libre 2
MediRx Sensor (10 day).
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
• The System must not be used with automated insulin dosing (AID) systems, including
closed loop and insulin suspend systems.
• Taking ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) supplements while wearing the Sensor may falsely
raise Sensor glucose readings. Inaccurate sensor readings due to ascorbic acid
interference may be clinical significant and result in harm if relied on to make treatement
decisions. Taking more than 500 mg of ascorbic acid per day may affect the Sensor
readings which could cause you to miss a severe low glucose event.
• The System must be removed prior to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Computed
Tomography (CT) scan, or high-frequency electrical heat (diathermy) treatment. The
effect of MRI, CT scans, or diathermy on the performance of the System has not been
evaluated. The exposure may damage the Sensor and may impact proper function of the
device which could cause incorrect readings.
• Do not use this system if you are pregnant, on dialysis, or critically ill. The System is not
cleared for use in these groups and it is not known how different conditions or
medications common to these populations may affect performance of the System.
• Do not ignore symptoms that may be due to low or high blood glucose: if you are
experiencing symptoms that are not consistent with the glucose readings, consult your
health care professional.
• Do not use the System in people less than 4 years of age.
• Use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes treatment decisions when you see the
"check blood glucose" symbol during the first 12 hours or wearing a Sensor. In addition,
use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes treatment decisions, if your Sensor
K210943 - Page 2 of 11

--- Page 3 ---
glucose reading does not match how you feel, or if the reading does not include a
number.
• Wash application site on the back of your upper arm using a plain soap, dry, and then
clean with an alcohol wipe. This will help remove any oily residue that may prevent the
sensor from sticking properly. Allow site to air dry before proceeding. Carefully
preparing the site according to these instructions will help the Sensor stay on your body
for the full wear duration specified by your Snesor insert and help prevent it from falling
off early.
• Store the Sensor Kit between 36°F and 82°F. Storage outside of this range may cause
inaccurate Sensor glucose readings. If you suspect that the temperature may exceeed
82°F (e.g., an un-airconditioned home in the summer), you should refridgerate your
Sensor Kit. Do not freeze your Sensor Kit.
• The Readers's built-in meter is not for use on people who are dehydrated, hypotensive, in
shock, or for individuals in hyperglycemic-hyperosmolar state, with or without ketosis.
• The Reader's built-in meter is not for use on neonates, in critically-ill patients, or for
diagnosis or screening of diabetes.
• The Reader's built-in meter is for use by a single person. Use of the Reader's built-in
meter on multiple patients may lead to transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus
(HIV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), or other bloodborne
pathogens.
• Use of the Sensor with devices, apps, and software that are not listed (as compatible) may
cause inaccuracte glucose readings.
• If a Sensor breaks inside a user's body, call your health care professional.
• Alarms you receive do not include your glucose reading. You must scan the Sensor to
get your real-time current glucose level as the Reader and App will not provide this
information without a scan.
• For you to receive alarms, they must be on in your Reader. If you want to receive the
App's optional alarms, make sure these are turned on. The Reader or phone should be
within 20 feet of you at all times. The transmission range is 20 feet unobstructed. If you
are out of range, you may not receive glucose alarms.
• To prevent missed alarms, make sure the Reader has sufficient charge and that sound
and/or vibration are turned on.
• The App will ask for phone permissions which are needed to receive alarms. Allow these
permissions when requested.
• Check to make sure that you have the correct phone settings and permissions enabled. If
your phone is not configured properly, you will not be able to use the App, so you will
not receive alarms or be able to check your glucose.
• Do not force close the App (iOS). The App must be running in the background to receive
alarms. If you force close the App you will not receive alarms. Re-open the App to ensure
you will receive alarms.
• If you adjust the phone ringer volume (iPhone) or Media volume (Android) to silent or
use the phone Do Not Disturb setting, keep ‘Override Do Not Disturb’ setting in the App
ON for Low Glucose, High Glucose, and Signal Loss alarms to ensure you receive
audible alarms.
• You should disconnect headphones or speakers from your phone when you are not using
them as you may not hear audio for alarms. If using headphones, keep them in your ears.
• If you are using peripheral devices connected to your phone, such as wireless headphones
or a smartwatch, you may receive alarms on only one device or peripheral, not all.
K210943 - Page 3 of 11

--- Page 4 ---
• Some operating system features may impact your ability to receive alarms. For example,
if you use an iPhone and the iOS Screen Time feature, add FreeStyle Libre 2 to the list of
Always Allowed apps to ensure that you receive alarms or if you use an Android Phone
do not use the Android Digital Wellbeing app.
• Keep your phone well charged and turned on.
• If you are using FreeStyle Libre 2 App, you must have access to a blood glucose
monitoring system as the App does not provide one.
• FreeStyle Libre 2 System is intended for use by a single person. It must not be used by
more than one person due to the risk of misinterpreting glucose information.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The subject device is the FreeStyle Libre 2 (“FSL2”) Flash Glucose Monitoring System (with
FreeStyle Libre 2 App for Android) and is modified from the previously cleared system with the iOS
app in K201761. This submission adds the FreeStyle Libre 2 App for Android (‘FSL2 App’ or
‘App’), which is an alternative primary display option for the FSL2 System. No changes are
proposed to the previously cleared sensor or Reader. When used with the FSL2 Sensor (or “Patch”)
cleared in K193371, or the FreeStyle Libre 2 MediRx Sensor (10 day), cleared in K211102, the
proposed mobile app allows the user to:
• activate FSL2 Sensors,
• view important safety information, alarm status, and measured interstitial fluid (ISF) glucose
levels, and
• connect with cloud-based applications to store and share data (e.g., LibreView).
The device is intended for use in people with diabetes mellitus, age 4 and older. The user
downloads the app either from the Apple App Store for iOS, or from the Google Play Store for
Android OS.
Principle of Operation
Upon user-initiated scan enabled by near-field communication (NFC) technology, the FSL2 App
can wirelessly query glucose data from the sensor by bringing a compatible smartphone in
proximity of the sensor. An app can only be paired with one sensor. The FSL2 system uses
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) to transfer glucose data each minute from the Sensor, which
allows for alarms to be presented to the user.
Upon scanning, glucose values are calculated by the app using the same algorithm as in the
previously cleared reader (K193371). The scan results include glucose measurements, trend
information, historic 8-hr glucose results, and any applicable glucose messages. Glucose
information is accompanied by background colors, which indicates how a glucose measurement
compares with a user-specified range. Before obtaining glucose measurements, a 1-hour warm-
up period is required after sensor activation. A check blood glucose icon appears notifying the
user that a blood glucose test must be used to confirm sensor readings during the first 12 hours of
wear before making treatment decisions. The app supports manual entry of blood glucose values
as well as event logging. The user may generate and share a range of report types, stratified by 7,
14, 30, or 90 days. The app stores up to 90 days of data.
K210943 - Page 4 of 11

--- Page 5 ---
System Components and Features
Alarms: The App is designed to issue glucose alarms that notify the user to perform a scan when
glucose has passed a glucose threshold. The FSL2 App can issue the following glucose and
system alarms:
• Mandatory Alarms: Urgent Low Glucose, Replace Sensor, Sensor Ended, App Stopped
(only in iOS where App can be force closed)
These alarms cannot be turned off or modified and will always sound regardless
o
of the phone’s sound and vibe or DND settings.
• Optional Alarms: Low Glucose Alarm, High Glucose Alarm, Signal Loss Alarm
For the optional alarms above, the Override Do Not Disturb (DND) setting is
o
turned on by default; therefore, the user receives these alarms regardless of the
phone’s sound, vibe or DND settings. If the user wishes to have the optional
alarms follow the phone’s sound and vibe settings, the user must turn off Override
DND from the App.
Hardware / Software compatibility: The FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System
(with FreeStyle Libre 2 App) is intended for use with NFC and BLE-enabled smartphones
running compatible iOS and Android operating systems. The FSL2 app is compatible with FSL2
Sensors and FreeStyle Libre 2 MediRx Sensors.
Secondary Viewers: LibreView and LibreLinkUp (LLU) provide a cloud-based repository for
glucose measurement data and mobile app that allows caregivers to receive and view glucose
data (including glucose alarms) from users who use the FSL2 App with their sensor. Secondary
viewers are not intended to be used for immediate clinical decision making.
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System
2. Specimen Identification:
N/A
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
N/A
4. Calibration:
The sensor is factory calibrated and does not require calibration from the user/operator.
5. Quality Control:
N/A
K210943 - Page 5 of 11

--- Page 6 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App)
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K201761
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K210943 K201761
Device(s):
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose
Glucose Monitoring
Device Trade Name Monitoring System (with
System (with FreeStyle
FreeStyle Libre 2 App)
Libre 2 App)
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
The FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring System is a
continuous glucose monitoring
(CGM) device with real time
alarms capability indicated for the
management of diabetes in persons
age 4 and older. It is intended to
replace blood glucose testing for
diabetes treatment decisions,
unless otherwise indicated.
The System also detects trends and
tracks patterns and aids in the
detection of episodes of
Intended Use/Indications hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia,
Same
For Use facilitating both acute and long-
term therapy adjustments.
Interpretation of the System
readings should be based on the
glucose trends and several
sequential readings over time.
The System is also intended to
autonomously communicate with
digitally connected devices. The
System can be used alone or in
conjunction with these digitally
connected devices where the user
manually controls actions for
therapy decisions.
Device Type Integrated CGM Same
K210943 - Page 6 of 11

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Device & Predicate		K210943	K201761
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose
Monitoring System (with
FreeStyle Libre 2 App)	FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring
System (with FreeStyle
Libre 2 App)
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			The FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring System is a
continuous glucose monitoring
(CGM) device with real time
alarms capability indicated for the
management of diabetes in persons
age 4 and older. It is intended to
replace blood glucose testing for
diabetes treatment decisions,
unless otherwise indicated.
The System also detects trends and
tracks patterns and aids in the
detection of episodes of
hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia,
facilitating both acute and long-
term therapy adjustments.
Interpretation of the System
readings should be based on the
glucose trends and several
sequential readings over time.
The System is also intended to
autonomously communicate with
digitally connected devices. The
System can be used alone or in
conjunction with these digitally
connected devices where the user
manually controls actions for
therapy decisions.	Same
Device Type			Integrated CGM	Same

--- Page 7 ---
Device & Predicate
K210943 K201761
Device(s):
Clinical Setting / Sites of
Home use Same
Use
Current glucose value, current
glucose trend, graph with recent
Data Displayed Same
glucose history, user entered
events
Method of Sensor
Activation RFID communication Same
RFID – upon user-initiated scan
Method of Data Transfer
BLE – for glucose data to support Same
from Sensor
glucose alarms
BLE Communication Range 20 feet unobstructed Same
The app uses the same algorithm
Sensor Glucose Algorithm Same
as the FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader
Glucose Reading Update
Every 1 minute Same
Interval
8 hours, 24-hour graph and other
Trend Graph Glucose
reports can be used to view logged Same
History
data
Low Glucose Alarm, High
Glucose Alarm, Signal Loss Alarm
Optional Alarms For Low and High Glucose Same
alarms, a user-initiated action is
required to see glucose reading
The App includes mandatory
alarms for Urgent Low Glucose,
Replace Sensor, Sensor Ended,
App Stopped (iOS App only)
Mandatory alarms These alarms are mandatory (set to Same
‘On’) and cannot be modified by
the user. For Urgent Low Glucose
alarm, a user-initiated action is
required to see glucose reading
While using the App, user must
have access to a blood glucose
Blood glucose meter Same
monitoring system as the App does
not provide one.
General Device
Characteristic Differences
FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader, FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader
Primary display device(s) FreeStyle Libre 2 App (iOS or or FreeStyle Libre 2 App
Android) (iOS)
K210943 - Page 7 of 11

[Table 1 on page 7]
	Device & Predicate		K210943	K201761
	Device(s):			
Clinical Setting / Sites of
Use			Home use	Same
Data Displayed			Current glucose value, current
glucose trend, graph with recent
glucose history, user entered
events	Same
Method of Sensor
Activation			RFID communication	Same
Method of Data Transfer
from Sensor			RFID – upon user-initiated scan
BLE – for glucose data to support
glucose alarms	Same
BLE Communication Range			20 feet unobstructed	Same
Sensor Glucose Algorithm			The app uses the same algorithm
as the FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader	Same
Glucose Reading Update
Interval			Every 1 minute	Same
Trend Graph Glucose
History			8 hours, 24-hour graph and other
reports can be used to view logged
data	Same
Optional Alarms			Low Glucose Alarm, High
Glucose Alarm, Signal Loss Alarm
For Low and High Glucose
alarms, a user-initiated action is
required to see glucose reading	Same
Mandatory alarms			The App includes mandatory
alarms for Urgent Low Glucose,
Replace Sensor, Sensor Ended,
App Stopped (iOS App only)
These alarms are mandatory (set to
‘On’) and cannot be modified by
the user. For Urgent Low Glucose
alarm, a user-initiated action is
required to see glucose reading	Same
Blood glucose meter			While using the App, user must
have access to a blood glucose
monitoring system as the App does
not provide one.	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Primary display device(s)			FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader,
FreeStyle Libre 2 App (iOS or
Android)	FreeStyle Libre 2 Reader
or FreeStyle Libre 2 App
(iOS)

--- Page 8 ---
Device & Predicate
K210943 K201761
Device(s):
Compatible with FSL2 Sensors
Compatible with FSL2
Compatible sensors and FreeStyle Libre 2 MediRx
Sensors
Sensors.
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• 21 CFR 862.1355 (integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM)) special
controls
• ISO14971-“Medical Devices-Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices”
• AAMI/IEC 62366-1-“Medical Devices-Application of Usability Engineering to
Medical Devices”
• AAMI/ANSI HE75-“Human Factors Engineering -Design of Medical Devices”
• IEC 60601-1-“Medical Electrical Equipment -Part 1: General Requirements for Basic
Safety and Essential Performance
• IEC 60601-1-11-“Medical electrical equipment — Part 1-11: General requirements
for basic safety and essential performance — Collateral standard: Requirements for
medical electrical equipment and medical electrical systems used in the home
healthcare environment”
• IEC 60601-1-2-“Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for
basic safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic
disturbances - Requirements and tests”
• ANSI C63.27-2017- “American National Standard for Evaluation of Wireless
Coexistence”
• AAMI TIR69-“Risk Management of Radio-Frequency Wireless Coexistence for
Medical Devices and Systems”
• EN 62304-“Medical Device Software-Software Life Cycle Processes
• AAMI/ANSI/ISO 10993-1-“ Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices-Part 1:
Evaluation and Testing within a Risk Management Process”
• ISO 11137-1-“Sterilization of Health Care Products-Radiation Part 1: Requirements
for Development, Validation and Routine Control of a Sterilization Process for
Medical Devices”
• ISO11137-2-“Sterilization of Health Care Products-Radiation Part 2: Establishing of
the Sterilization Dose”
• ISO 11607-1-“Packaging for Terminally Sterilized Medical Devices-Part 1:
Requirements for Materials, Sterile Barrier Systems and Packaging Systems”
• ISO 11607-2-“Packaging for Terminally Sterilized Medical Devices-Part 2:
Validation Requirements for Forming, Sealing and Assembly Processes”
• ASTM D4169-“Standard Practice for Performance Testing of Shipping Containers
and System”
• ISO 15223-1-“Medical Device-Symbols to be used with Medical Device Labels,
Labeling and Information to be Supplied-Part 1: General Requirements
• IEC 60417-“DB Graphical Symbols for Use on Equipment”
• FAA AC no. 91.21-1C-“Use of Portable Electronic Devices Aboard Aircraft”
K210943 - Page 8 of 11

[Table 1 on page 8]
	Device & Predicate		K210943	K201761
	Device(s):			
Compatible sensors			Compatible with FSL2 Sensors
and FreeStyle Libre 2 MediRx
Sensors.	Compatible with FSL2
Sensors

--- Page 9 ---
• FCC Title 47: Part 15-“Radio Frequency Devices, Conducted Limits, Section 15.225
and Section 15.247”
• AAMI TIR57: 2016- “Principles for medical device security – Risk management”
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established in k193371.
2. Linearity:
The reportable range for the System is 40 to 400 mg/dL.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Previously established in k193371.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The following supportive instrument performance characteristics were established in the
predicate for the FSL2 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (K193371), and are not affected
by the addition of the Android App in the current 510(k):
• Sterilization
• Biocompatibility
• Mechanical Engineering
• Environmental Testing
• Shelf-Life Stability
• Packaging Integrity/Shipping Integrity
• Interoperability
The following performance characteristics were verified or validated through studies of the
current design:
• Software
Software verification and validation testing was conducted to confirm that the software
used in the FreeStyle Libre 2 System performed in accordance with established
specifications, EN 62304 and FDA Guidance document “Guidance for the Content of
K210943 - Page 9 of 11

--- Page 10 ---
Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices,” May 11, 2005.
Evaluation activities included unit, system integration (SIT), and system level testing
which verified functionality of the device against established software requirements.
Results of the software executed protocols for FreeStyle Libre 2 met the acceptance
criteria and therefore supports that the System’s Android App software is acceptable for
its intended use.
• Human Factors
Human factors and usability testing of the FreeStyle Libre 2 System (with FreeStyle
Libre 2 App for Android) was conducted to determine whether the user interface design
and labeling would impact the performance of the device. Human factors testing was
conducted in accordance with:
Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices,
o
Guidance to FDA Staff and Industry, February 3, 2016
ANSI/AAMI/IEC 62366: Medical devices - Application of Usability Engineering
o
to Medical Devices
IEC 60601-1-6: Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for
o
basic safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability
Specific use scenarios and tasks the user would have to carry out correctly in order to use
the device safely were identified. An analysis of hazards and risks was conducted on the
FreeStyle Libre 2 System to determine safety risks associated with use of the system. All
critical tasks for which a use error could lead to high severity harm were evaluated with
validation testing.
• Cybersecurity
Abbott Diabetes Care (ADC) has provided cybersecurity risk management
documentation for the FreeStyle Libre 2 System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App) that
includes analysis of confidentiality, integrity, and availability for data, information and
software related to the System. For each identified threat and vulnerability risk event
scenario, risk assessment of impact to confidentiality, integrity, and availability was
performed and documented within the cybersecurity risk management documentation.
Risk mitigation controls have been implemented and tested.
ADC provides a comprehensive cybersecurity bill of materials (CBOM) describing third
party software components utilized and detailing support status and known vulnerabilities
for each off-the-shelf (OTS) software component.
In addition, ADC has controls and processes in place to ensure continued support for
keeping the device secure and to ensure that the device firmware, software and
components are malware free. Additional controls are also in place in manufacturing
through distribution to ensure that the medical device firmware and software are malware
free from point of origin to the hands of the end user.
• Wireless Coexistence
The FreeStyle Libre 2 System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App -Android) underwent
coexistence testing in the presence of common RF interfering devices that are likely to be
encountered by users in a home environment. A representative set of devices known to
operate in the same frequency band (2.4 GHz) was selected and tested following methods
consistent with AAMI TIR69 and ANSI C63.27. The test results showed that the
K210943 - Page 10 of 11

--- Page 11 ---
FreeStyle Libre 2 System could tolerate interference generated by these RF interfering
devices and still meet the target performance criteria.
• Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility
Electrical safety data from K193371 was leveraged as the Sensor and Reader have not
changed since that clearance and the FreeStyle Libre 2 App only interacts with the Sensor
via NFC and BLE radios on the compatible mobile phone (which independently needs to
comply with applicable electrical safety standards).
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) testing (radiated emissions, radiated immunity and
magnetic field immunity) was performed to verify that the system was able to withstand
electromagnetic interference in compliance with IEC 60601-1-2:2014. The FreeStyle
Libre 2 System was tested with seven (7) compatible smartphones running Android OS.
A risk management process was used to evaluate the basic safety and essential
performance of the FreeStyle Libre 2 System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App) per IEC
60601-1:2005(r)2012. Previous testing from K193371 for electrostatic discharge (ESD)
and other device EMC aspects is leveraged.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K210943 - Page 11 of 11