
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K213887
B Applicant
Apex BioTechnology Corp.
C Proprietary and Established Names
GAL-1A Plus Blood Glucose Monitoring System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1345 - CH - Clinical
NBW Class II
Glucose Test System Chemistry
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.): GAL-1A Blood
Glucose Monitoring System, (k113208)
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed. This change was for:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
NBW			Class II	21 CFR 862.1345 -
Glucose Test System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
• The meter case shape was changed from rectangle to oval
• The color of meter case was changed from black and white to gray
• The device trade name was changed from GAL-1A Blood Glucose Monitoring System to
GAL-1A Plus Blood Glucose Monitoring System
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
The device system is intended for single-patient use only. Disinfection efficacy studies were
previously performed on the exterior meter materials (k113208) demonstrating complete
inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the Dispatch towel (EPA Reg# 56392-8). A
robustness study was performed by the sponsor to demonstrate that the meter is robust to one
cleaning and one disinfection cycle per day over a 5-year use life of the meter (1825 cycles).
Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and disinfection
procedures.
K213887 - Page 2 of 2