
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K213996
B Applicant
Abbott Diabetes Care Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
FreeStyle Libre 3 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous CH - Clinical
QLG Class II
Glucose Monitoring Chemistry
System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modifications to the cleared FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System (with FreeStyle
Libre 2 app) to display real-time glucose data via a Bluetooth-enabled Android device without
scanning the Sensor.
B Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QLG			Class II	21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous
Glucose Monitoring
System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The FreeStyle Libre 3 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System is a real time continuous glucose
monitoring (CGM) device with alarms capability indicated for the management of diabetes in
persons age 4 and older. It is intended to replace blood glucose testing for diabetes treatment
decisions, unless otherwise indicated.
The System also detects trends and tracks patterns and aids in the detection of episodes of
hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, facilitating both acute and long-term therapy adjustments.
Interpretation of the System readings should be based on the glucose trends and several
sequential readings over time.
The System is also intended to autonomously communicate with digitally connected devices.
The System can be used alone or in conjunction with these digitally connected devices where the
user manually controls actions for therapy decisions.
C Contraindication(s):
Due to an administrative error, the reference to wear period was erroneously included in the
Contraindications section of the previous 510(k) Decision Summary. It is now removed from this
section and added to the Special Conditions for Use Statements section below.
The System must not be used with automated insulin dosing (AID) systems, including closed
loop and insulin suspend systems.
The System must be removed prior to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Computed
Tomography (CT) scan, or high-frequency electrical heat (diathermy) treatment. The effect of
MRI, CT scans, or diathermy on the performance of the System has not been evaluated. The
exposure may damage the Sensor and may impact proper function of the device which could
cause incorrect readings.
D Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
The sensor can be worn up to 14 days. Remember to always have your next Sensor available
before your current one ends so you can keep getting your glucose readings.
Do not use the System in people less than 4 years of age. The System is not cleared for use in
people under 4 years of age.
Do not use the System if you are pregnant, on dialysis, or critically ill. The System is not cleared
for use in these groups and it is not known how different conditions or medications common to
these populations may affect performance of the System.
The FreeStyle Libre 3 app installed on a phone is intended for use by a single person. It must not
be used by more than one person due to the risk of misinterpreting glucose information.
K213996 - Page 2 of 10

--- Page 3 ---
Performance of the System when used with other implanted medical devices, such as
pacemakers, has not been evaluated.
Taking ascorbic acid (vitamin C) supplements while wearing the Sensor may falsely raise Sensor
glucose readings. Taking more than 500 mg of ascorbic acid per day may affect the Sensor
readings which could cause you to miss a severe low glucose event. Ascorbic acid can be found
in supplements including multivitamins. Some supplements, including cold remedies such as
Airborne® and Emergen-C®, may contain high doses of 1000 mg of ascorbic acid and should
not be taken while using the Sensor. See your health care professional to understand how long
ascorbic acid is active in your body.
Do not ignore symptoms that may be due to low or high blood glucose: if you are experiencing
symptoms that are not consistent with the glucose readings, consult your health care
professional.
Use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes treatment decisions when you see the symbol
during the first 12 hours of wearing a Sensor, if your Sensor glucose reading does not match how
you feel or if the reading does not include a number.
For you to receive alarms, they must be on and your device should be within 33 feet of you at all
times. The transmission range is 33 feet unobstructed. If you are out of range, you may not
receive alarms.
If you suspect that the temperature may exceed 82°F (for example, in an unairconditioned home
in summer), you should refrigerate your Sensor Kit. Do not freeze your Sensor Kit.
Do not force close the App. The App must be running in the background to receive alarms. If
you force close the App you will not receive alarms. Re-open the App to ensure you will receive
alarms.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The FreeStyle Libre 3 (FSL3) Continuous Glucose Monitoring System is an integrated
continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM) that provides continuous glucose measurements
every minute to provide glucose levels, trends, and alerts. The System requires a prescription and
is intended for home use. The System consists of the following components: a Sensor which
transmits via Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), and a mobile application, FreeStyle Libre 3 App,
downloaded to a compatible smartphone running on Android operating system. When used with
the FSL 3 sensor cleared under K212132, the proposed mobile app allows the user to activate
FSL3 sensors, provides real-time glucose measurements (glucose values) accompanied by trend
information (glucose arrows) and historical glucose information (glucose graph) thus allowing
the user may make treatment decisions, and connect with cloud-based applications to store and
share data (e.g. LibreView).
The device is intended for use in people with diabetes mellitus, age 4 and older. The user
downloads the app from the Google Play Store for Android OS.
Principle of Operation
K213996 - Page 3 of 10

--- Page 4 ---
The FreeStyle Libre 3 System provides the user with real-time glucose measurements (glucose
values) accompanied by trend information (glucose arrows) and historic 12-hour glucose results
(glucose graph) that are presented on the App. The real-time glucose measurements and glucose
arrows are calculated by the Sensor software based upon glucose sampling, also performed by
the Sensor.
The Sensor is designed to measure glucose levels in the user’s interstitial fluid through an
amperometric electrochemical sensor component. The sensor tail is inserted into the
subcutaneous tissue and generates an electrical current via the oxidation of glucose from the
interstitial fluid. The FreeStyle Libre 3 System is intended for single patient use. The App can
only pair to one Sensor at a time. The Sensor is disposable and may be worn up to 14 days. The
Sensor automatically terminates after 14 days of use.
System Components and Features
Alarms: The FSL3 App can issue the following glucose and system alarms:
• Mandatory Alarms: Urgent Low Glucose, Replace Sensor, Sensor Ended
These alarms cannot be turned off or modified and will always sound regardless
o
of the phone’s sound and vibe or Do Not Disturb (DND) settings.
• Optional Alarms: Low Glucose Alarm, High Glucose Alarm, Signal Loss Alarm
For the optional alarms above, the Override DND setting is turned on by default;
o
therefore, the user receives these alarms regardless of the phone’s sound, vibe or
DND settings. If the user wishes to have the optional alarms follow the phone’s
sound and vibe settings, the user must turn off Override DND from the App.
Hardware / Software compatibility: The FreeStyle Libre 3 Continuous Glucose Monitoring
System is intended for use with Field Communication (NFC) and BLE-enabled smartphones
running compatible Android operating systems. The FSL3 app is compatible with FSL3 Sensors.
Secondary Viewers: LibreView and LibreLinkUp (LLU) provide a cloud-based repository for
glucose measurement data and mobile app that allows caregivers to receive and view glucose
data (including glucose alarms) from users who use the FSL3 App with their sensor. Secondary
viewers are not intended to be used for immediate clinical decision making.
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
FreeStyle Libre 3 Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
2. Specimen Identification:
N/A
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
N/A
K213996 - Page 4 of 10

--- Page 5 ---
4. Calibration:
The sensor is factory calibrated and cannot be calibrated by the user.
5. Quality Control:
N/A
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System (with FreeStyle Libre 2 App)
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K210943
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Due to an administrative error, the primary display device was wrongly referenced to have only
iOS operating system instead of iOS or Android operating systems in the previous 510(k)
Decision Summary. It has since been correced.
Device & Predicate
K213996 K210943
Device(s):
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Freestyle Libre 3
Glucose Monitoring
Device Trade Name Continuous Glucose
System (with FreeStyle
Monitoring System
Libre 2 App)
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
A real time continuous
glucose monitoring
(CGM) device with
alarms capability
indicated for the
management of diabetes
in persons age 4 and
older. It is intended to
Intended Use/Indications replace blood glucose
Same
For Use testing for diabetes
treatment decisions,
unless otherwise
indicated.
The System also detects
trends and tracks
patterns and aids in the
detection of episodes of
K213996 - Page 5 of 10

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		K213996	K210943
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Freestyle Libre 3
Continuous Glucose
Monitoring System	FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring
System (with FreeStyle
Libre 2 App)
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			A real time continuous
glucose monitoring
(CGM) device with
alarms capability
indicated for the
management of diabetes
in persons age 4 and
older. It is intended to
replace blood glucose
testing for diabetes
treatment decisions,
unless otherwise
indicated.
The System also detects
trends and tracks
patterns and aids in the
detection of episodes of	Same

--- Page 6 ---
hyperglycemia and
hypoglycemia,
facilitating both acute
and long-term therapy
adjustments.
Interpretation of the
System readings should
be based on the glucose
trends and several
sequential readings over
time.
The System is also
intended to
autonomously
communicate with
digitally connected
devices. The System
can be used alone or in
conjunction with these
digitally connected
devices where the user
manually controls
actions for therapy
decisions.
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Assembly of sensor to
Applicator Assembly No assembly required
applicator required
FreeStyle Libre 2 App
(iOS or Android) or
Primary display device FreeStyle Libre 3 App FreeStyle Libre 2
Reader
2.9 mm height/ 21 mm 5 mm height/ 30 mm
Transmitter Dimension diameter diameter
Information provided with Alarm type, glucose Alarm type
glucose alarm result and trend arrow
Method of Data transfer Bluetooth Low Energy BLE for glucose alarms.
from Sensor (BLE) for both glucose User-initiated scan via
data and alarms NFC required to display
glucose data
BLE communication range 33 feet unobstructed 20 feet unobstructed
K213996 - Page 6 of 10

[Table 1 on page 6]
			hyperglycemia and
hypoglycemia,
facilitating both acute
and long-term therapy
adjustments.
Interpretation of the
System readings should
be based on the glucose
trends and several
sequential readings over
time.
The System is also
intended to
autonomously
communicate with
digitally connected
devices. The System
can be used alone or in
conjunction with these
digitally connected
devices where the user
manually controls
actions for therapy
decisions.	
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Applicator Assembly			No assembly required	Assembly of sensor to
applicator required
Primary display device			FreeStyle Libre 3 App	FreeStyle Libre 2 App
(iOS or Android) or
FreeStyle Libre 2
Reader
Transmitter Dimension			2.9 mm height/ 21 mm
diameter	5 mm height/ 30 mm
diameter
Information provided with
glucose alarm			Alarm type, glucose
result and trend arrow	Alarm type
Method of Data transfer
from Sensor			Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE) for both glucose
data and alarms	BLE for glucose alarms.
User-initiated scan via
NFC required to display
glucose data
BLE communication range			33 feet unobstructed	20 feet unobstructed

--- Page 7 ---
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
Due to an administrative error, two references were erroneously included in the previous 510(k)
Decision Summary. They have since been removed from this section.
• 21 CFR 862.1355 integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM)) special
controls
• ISO 14971: 2019Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical devices
• ANSI AAMI 60601-1:2005/(R)2012 and A1:2012, Medical electrical equipment – Part 1:
General requirements for basic safety
• AAMI TIR69: 2017, Risk Management of Radio-frequency Wireless Coexistence for
Medical Devices and Systems
• ANSI C63.27-2017, American National Standard for Evaluation of Wireless Coexistence
• ANSI AAMI IEC 62366-1:2015, Medical devices - Application of usability engineering
to medical devices
• AAMI / ANSI HE75: 2009/(R)2018, Human Factors Engineering - Design of Medical
Devices
• AAMI TIR57: 2016, Principles for medical device security – Risk management
• IEC 60601-1-2:2014-02 Edition 4.0, General requirements for basic safety and essential
performance – Collateral standard: Electromagnetic
• IEC 62304: 2006/A1:2016, Medical device software – Software life cycle processes
• ISO 15223-1:2016, Medical device – Symbols to be used with medical device labels,
labeling and information to be supplied – Pt 1
• AAMI / ANSI / ISO 10993-1: 2018, Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices - Part 1:
Evaluation and Testing within a risk management process
• ISO 11607-1, Packaging for terminally sterilized medical devices - Part 1: Requirements
for materials, sterile barrier systems and package
• ISO 11607-2, Packaging for terminally sterilized medical devices - Part 2: Validation
requirements for forming, sealing and assembly processes
• Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices
• Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical
Devices
• Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) of Medical Devices
• Radio Frequency Wireless Technology in Medical Devices
• Multiple Function Device Products: Policy and Considerations
• Policy for Device Software Functions and Mobile Medical Applications
• Use of International Standard ISO 10993-1, "Biological evaluation of medical devices -
Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk management process"
• Submission and Review of Sterility Information in Premarket Notification (510(k))
Submissions for Devices Labeled as Sterile
• Design Considerations and Pre-market Submission Recommendations for Interoperable
Medical Devices
• Recommended Content and Format of Non-Clinical Bench Performance Testing
Information in Premarket Submissions
• Design Considerations and Pre-market Submission Recommendations for Interoperable
Medical Devices.
K213996 - Page 7 of 10

--- Page 8 ---
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established in K212132.
2. Linearity:
The reportable range for the System is 40 to 400 mg/dL.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Previously established in K212132.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Previously established in K212132.
5. Carry-Over:
N/A
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The following supportive instrument performance characteristics were established in K212132
unless mentioned otherwise, and are not affected by the addition of the Android App in the
current 510(k):
• Sterilization
• Biocompatibility
• Environmental testing
• Shelf-life stability
• Packaging integrity/shipping integrity
• Mechanical engineering
• Interoperability
• Human Factors
Human factors and usability testing of the FreeStyle Libre 3 System was leveraged from
K210943.
The following performance characteristics were verified or validated through studies of the
current design:
Software Verification and Validation
K213996 - Page 8 of 10

--- Page 9 ---
Software verification and validation testing was conducted to confirm that the software used in
the FreeStyle Libre 3 System performed in accordance with established specifications, EN 62304
and FDA Guidance document “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software
Contained in Medical Devices,” May 11, 2005. Evaluation activities included unit, system
integration (SIT), and system level testing which verified functionality of the device against
established software requirements. Results of the software executed protocols for FreeStyle Libre
3 System met the acceptance criteria and therefore supports that the System’s Android App
software is acceptable for its intended use.
Cybersecurity
Abbott Diabetes Care (ADC) has provided cybersecurity risk management documentation for the
FreeStyle Libre 3 System that includes analysis of confidentiality, integrity, and availability for
data, information and software related to the System. For each identified threat and vulnerability
risk event scenario, risk assessment of impact to confidentiality, integrity, and availability was
performed and documented within the cybersecurity risk management documentation. Risk
mitigation controls have been implemented and tested.
ADC provides a comprehensive cybersecurity bill of materials (CBOM) describing third party
software components utilized and detailing support status and known vulnerabilities for each off-
the-shelf (OTS) software component. In addition, ADC has controls and processes in place to
ensure continued support for keeping the device secure and to ensure that the device firmware,
software and components are malware free. Additional controls are also in place in
manufacturing through distribution to ensure that the medical device firmware and software are
malware free from point of origin to the hands of the end user.
Wireless Coexistence
The FreeStyle Libre 3 System underwent coexistence testing in the presence of common RF
interfering devices that are likely to be encountered by users in a home environment. A
representative set of devices known to operate in the same frequency band (2.4 GHz) was
selected and tested following methods consistent with AAMI TIR69 and ANSI C63.27. The test
results showed that the FreeStyle Libre 3 System could tolerate interference generated by these
RF interfering devices and still meet the target performance criteria.
Electrical Safety and Electromagnetic Compatibility
Electrical safety data was leveraged from K212132 as the Sensor has not changed and the app
only interacts with the Sensor via NFC and BLE radios on the compatible mobile phone (which
independently needs to comply with applicable electrical safety standards).
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) testing (radiated emissions, radiated immunity and
magnetic field immunity) was performed to verify that the system was able to withstand
electromagnetic interference in compliance with IEC 60601-1-2:2014. The FreeStyle Libre 3
System was tested with six (6) compatible smartphones running Android OS. A risk management
process was used to evaluate the basic safety and essential performance of the FreeStyle Libre 3
System (with FreeStyle Libre 3 App) per IEC 60601-1:2005(r)2012. Previous testing from
K212132 for electrostatic discharge (ESD) and other device EMC aspects is leveraged.
K213996 - Page 9 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K213996 - Page 10 of 10