
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K221460
B Applicant
BioFire Defense, LLC
C Proprietary and Established Names
BioFire COVID-19 Test 2
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3981 - Device
To Detect And Identify
Nucleic Acid Targets In
Respiratory Specimens
From Microbial Agents
QQX Class II MI - Microbiology
That Cause The SARS-
Cov-2 Respiratory
Infection And Other
Microbial Agents When In
A Multi-Target Test
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QQX			Class II	21 CFR 866.3981 - Device
To Detect And Identify
Nucleic Acid Targets In
Respiratory Specimens
From Microbial Agents
That Cause The SARS-
Cov-2 Respiratory
Infection And Other
Microbial Agents When In
A Multi-Target Test			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed. This change was for software unmasking to provide results
reporting utilizing the full, seven assay version of the test.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
K221460 - Page 2 of 2