
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K221493
B Applicant
Beckman Coulter, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.1640 -
LIE Class II Antimicrobial MI - Microbiology
Susceptibility Test Powder
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
The purpose is to update the MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D device labeling.
Previously obtained QC, reproducibility, and clinical data for the MicroScan Dried Gram
negative and/or Gram positive MIC/Combo panels, as noted in recent 510(k) decision
summaries, is applicable to support this submission.
The Prompt Inoculation method was originally developed by 3M Company and cleared in
K820299 (product 6307).
B Measurand:
Standardized suspensions of bacteria equivalent to a 0.5McFrland standard.
C Type of Test:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
LIE			Class II	21 CFR 866.1640 -
Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Test Powder			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
Inoculum calibration device for microdilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test.
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D is used to standardize inocula for microdilution
antimicrobial susceptibility tests.
The MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D is an accessory to the MicroScan Gram Negative
and Gram Positive MIC/Combo Panels. Indications for use organisms are specific for each
antimicrobial agent on the panel.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
Limitations:
1. The Prompt Inoculation System-D should not be used when the colony size is smaller than
the wand tip. Examples of organisms that may not meet the size requirement are
Streptococcus spp. other than S. bovis and S. agalactiae (Group B). Picking colonies which
are too small will result in under-inoculation and may cause a resistant organism to appear to
be susceptible. An alternate method of inoculum preparation should be used for colonies
smaller than the wand tip.
2. Some mucoid strains of organisms such as Klebsiella spp. or Pseudomonas spp. may not
adhere to the Prompt wand when attempting to pick the colony. This will be visually
apparent. An alternate method of inoculum preparation should be used for such organisms.
3. Refer to the appropriate MicroScan panel Procedural Manual for each antimicrobial agent.
D Special Instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D is a method for obtaining standardized bacterial
inoculum while eliminating the need for incubation and turbidity adjustment with inocula
prepared according to the CLSI procedure. It consists of an inoculation wand and a bottle of
diluent. The wand is a polypropylene rod with a breakaway collar that serves as a wiping
mechanism. The rod is attached to a stopper. At the tip of the wand is a groove designed to hold
a specific amount of bacteria equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland standard. Thirty (30) ml of diluent
(Pluronic is used as the surfactant) are provided in the plastic bottle. Each kit contains 60 plastic
K221493 - Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
bottles, each containing 30 ml of stabilized aqueous Pluronic surfactants and 62 inoculation
wands.
B Principle of Operation:
The MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D is an in vitro accessory which aids in the inoculum
preparation for use with MicroSan Dried Gram positive and/or Gram negative MIC/Combo
panels for quantitative and qualitative antimicrobial susceptibility testing.
The MicroScan Prompt Inoculation System-D wand is touched to several bacterial colonies on a
primary isolation plate, wiped, then placed in the plastic bottle. The bacteria are suspended by
shaking the bottle. The bacterial suspension, which is equivalent to a 0.5 McFarland, is stable for
four hours after preparation.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Prompt Inoculation
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K820299
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate K221493 K820299
Device(s): (Product No. B1026-10D) (Product No. 6307)
MicroScan Prompt
Device Trade Name Prompt Inoculation
Inoculation System-D
General Device Characteristic Similarities
Used to standardize
inocula for
Intended Use microdilution Same
antimicrobial
susceptibility tests.
At the tip of the wand is
a groove designed to
hold a specific amount
Technology Same
of bacteria equivalent to
a 0.5 McFarland
standard.
Isolated colonies from
Specimen Same
cultures.
Incubation Temperature 35°C ±1°C Same
Incubation Atmosphere Aerobic Same
16-20 hours (unless
Incubation Time Same
otherwise indicated
K221493 - Page 3 of 6

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device & Predicate			K221493			K820299	
	Device(s):			(Product No. B1026-10D)			(Product No. 6307)	
Device Trade Name			MicroScan Prompt
Inoculation System-D			Prompt Inoculation		
	General Device Characteristic Similarities							
Intended Use			Used to standardize
inocula for
microdilution
antimicrobial
susceptibility tests.			Same		
Technology			At the tip of the wand is
a groove designed to
hold a specific amount
of bacteria equivalent to
a 0.5 McFarland
standard.			Same		
Specimen			Isolated colonies from
cultures.			Same		
Incubation Temperature			35°C ±1°C			Same		
Incubation Atmosphere			Aerobic			Same		
Incubation Time			16-20 hours (unless
otherwise indicated			Same		

--- Page 4 ---
with an individual
assay)
General Device Characteristic Differences
Hold Time (stability of
4 hours 2 hours
bacteria in solution)
Reading Method Automated or Manual Manual
Antimicrobial Susceptibility MicroSan MIC/Combo CLSI broth
Test Panel Microdilution Method
Pluronic as the
0.02% aqueous Tween
Diluents surfactant and removal
80
of NaCL
Storage 2-27°C < 27°C
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow
Aerobically. 2018. Approved Standard M07-A11. Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute, Wayne, PA.
• Guidance for Industry and FDA, Class II Special Controls Guidance Document:
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) Systems, August 28, 2009.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
No new data were reviewed in this submission. Reproducibility data obtained with the
Prompt Inoculation System-D was evaluated in previously conducted studies described in
recent 510(k) decision summaries for the MicroScan Dried Gram negative and Gram positive
MIC/Combo panels.
In those studies, the inocula was prepared using both the turbidity and the MicroScan Prompt
Inoculation System-D. Results were read manually as well as with the WalkAway and
autoSCAN-4 instruments. Acceptance criteria were as noted in the Class II Special Control
Guidance Document: Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test (AST) System and recent 510(k)
decision summaries.
Refer to the appropriate MicroScan Dried Gram negative and Gram positive MIC/Combo
Panel Procedural Manual for each antimicrobial agent.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
K221493 - Page 4 of 6

[Table 1 on page 4]
		with an individual
assay)		
	General Device Characteristic Differences			
Hold Time (stability of
bacteria in solution)		4 hours	2 hours	
Reading Method		Automated or Manual	Manual	
Antimicrobial Susceptibility
Test		MicroSan MIC/Combo
Panel	CLSI broth
Microdilution Method	
Diluents		Pluronic as the
surfactant and removal
of NaCL	0.02% aqueous Tween
80	
Storage		2-27°C	< 27°C	

--- Page 5 ---
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Not applicable
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Inoculum Density Check:
No new data were reviewed in this submission. Inoculum density data obtained with the
Prompt Inoculation System-D were evaluated in previously conducted studies described in
recent 510(k) decision summaries for the MicroScan Dried Gram negative and Gram positive
MIC/Combo panels.
Refer to the appropriate MicroScan Dried Gram-Negative and Positive MIC/Combo panels
Procedural Manual and CLSI Approved Standard document M07-A11 for instructions to
check inoculum densities by performing colony counts.
Quality Control (QC):
No new data were reviewed in this submission. QC data obtained with the Prompt
Inoculation System-D were evaluated in previously conducted studies described in recent
510(k) decision summaries for the MicroScan Dried Gram negative and Gram positive
MIC/Combo panels.
Refer to appropriate MicroScan Dried Gram positive and/or Gram negative MIC/Combo
panel Procedural Manual for each antimicrobial agent.
6. Detection Limit:
Not applicable
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Not applicable
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
The prompt inoculation system was developed by 3M Company and was cleared in
K820299. Changes were made to the Prompt Inoculation method since the original
submission in K820299 including diluents, storage temperature and the hold time (refer to
comparison with the predicate device table above).
No method comparison data were reviewed in this submission. Clinical performance data
obtained with the Prompt Inoculation System-D were evaluated in previously conducted
K221493 - Page 5 of 6

--- Page 6 ---
studies described in recent 510(k) decision summaries for the MicroScan Dried Gram
negative and Gram positive MIC/Combo panels for each antimicrobial agent.
Performance of the MicroScan MIC/Combo panels was evaluated using the Prompt
inoculation method and the turbidity method against the CLSI broth microdilution reference
method and results were analyzed based on the recommended guidelines in the AST Class II
Special Controls Guidance Document issued on August 28, 2009. Any antimicrobial agent
specific performance notes or limitations are included in the applicable MicroScan
MIC/Combo Panel procedural manual. Refer to the appropriate MicroScan Dried Gram
negative and Gram positive MIC/Combo panel Procedural Manual for each antimicrobial
agent.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not applicable
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Not applicable
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K221493 - Page 6 of 6