
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K222591
B Applicant
Becton, Dickinson and Company
C Proprietary and Established Names
BD BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F Culture Vials
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.2560 -
MDB Class I, reserved MI - Microbiology
Microbial Growth Monitor
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS I device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device.
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use and package labeling.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
MDB			Class I, reserved	21 CFR 866.2560 -
Microbial Growth Monitor			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modifications and the comparative information between
the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has
not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The New
510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially
equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
K222591 - Page 2 of 2