
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K222921
B Applicant
Healthy.io Ltd.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Minuteful-kidney test
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1225 -
CH - Clinical
JFY Class II Creatinine Test
Chemistry
System
21 CFR 862.1645 -
Urinary protein or
CH - Clinical
JIR Class I albumin
Chemistry
(nonquantitative) test
system
21 CFR 862.2900 -
CH - Clinical
KQO Class I Automated urinalysis
Chemistry
system
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Modification to an existing device
B Measurand:
Albumin and Creatinine in urine
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
JFY			Class II	21 CFR 862.1225 -
Creatinine Test
System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry
JIR			Class I	21 CFR 862.1645 -
Urinary protein or
albumin
(nonquantitative) test
system			CH - Clinical
Chemistry
KQO			Class I	21 CFR 862.2900 -
Automated urinalysis
system			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
C Type of Test:
Semi-quantitative urinalysis
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The Minuteful - kidney test is an in-vitro diagnostic, home-use urine analysis test system for the
semi-quantitative measurement of albumin and creatinine in urine, as well as the presentation of
their ratio, the albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR). The system consists of a smartphone application,
proprietary Color-Board and an ACR Reagent Strip. The system is available for prescription-use
only and is intended for people at risk of kidney disease. Results are intended to be used in
conjunction with clinical evaluation as an aid in the assessment of kidney health.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
The following representative smartphone models and operating system (OS) versions were used
in the different studies described in Section VII (Performance Characteristics).
Manufacturer Model OS† version
Apple iPhone 8 plus iOS16
Apple iPhone 11 iOS13
Apple iPhone 13 Pro iOS16
Motorola Moto G60S Android 11
Google Pixel 5 Android 13
Samsung Galaxy A42 Android 12
Samsung Galaxy Note 10+ Android 11
Samsung Galaxy 22 Android 13
†Operating System
Phones and OS versions that are not compatible with the Minuteful – kidney test will be blocked
from downloading the application.
K222921 - Page 2 of 8

[Table 1 on page 2]
Manufacturer	Model	OS† version
Apple	iPhone 8 plus	iOS16
Apple	iPhone 11	iOS13
Apple	iPhone 13 Pro	iOS16
Motorola	Moto G60S	Android 11
Google	Pixel 5	Android 13
Samsung	Galaxy A42	Android 12
Samsung	Galaxy Note 10+	Android 11
Samsung	Galaxy 22	Android 13

--- Page 3 ---
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The device description is the same as described in K210069. The device has been modified to
increase control over the two camera features, exposure and white balance, during the image
capturing process.
B Principle of Operation:
The principle of operation is the same as described in K210069.
C Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Minuteful - kidney test
2. Specimen Identification:
The specimen identification is the same as described in K210069.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The specimen sampling and handling is the same as described in K210069.
4. Calibration:
As described in K210069, calibration is not needed.
5. Quality Control:
Quality control is the same as described in K210069.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Minuteful - kidney test
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K210069
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K222921 K210069
Device(s):
Healthy.io Minuteful - Healthy.io Minuteful -
Device Trade Name
kidney test kidney test
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Intended Use/Indications The Minuteful – kidney
Same
For Use test is an in-vitro
K222921 - Page 3 of 8

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device & Predicate		K222921	K210069
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Healthy.io Minuteful -
kidney test	Healthy.io Minuteful -
kidney test
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			The Minuteful – kidney
test is an in-vitro	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Device & Predicate
K222921 K210069
Device(s):
diagnostic home- use
urine analysis test
system, for the semi-
quantitative
measurement of
albumin and creatinine
in urine, as well as the
presentation of their
ratio, the albumin-
creatinine ratio (ACR).
The system consists of a
smartphone application,
proprietary Color-Board
and an ACR Reagent
Strip. The system is
available for
prescription-use only.
Results are intended to
be used in conjunction
with clinical evaluation
as an aid in the
assessment of kidney
health.
Detection Methodology Reflectance photometry Same
Detection Device Photosensitive diode Same
Measuring Range 10-150mg/L albumin Same
10-300 mg/dL
creatinine
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Advanced control of
Without advanced
Camera Features white balance and
control
exposure
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• CLSI EP l7-A2: Evaluation of Detection Capability for Clinical Laboratory Measurement
Procedures, Approved Guideline - 2nd Ed.
• CLSI EP12-A2 2nd Edition, User Protocol for Evaluation of Qualitative Test Performance
K222921 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K222921	K210069
	Device(s):			
			diagnostic home- use
urine analysis test
system, for the semi-
quantitative
measurement of
albumin and creatinine
in urine, as well as the
presentation of their
ratio, the albumin-
creatinine ratio (ACR).
The system consists of a
smartphone application,
proprietary Color-Board
and an ACR Reagent
Strip. The system is
available for
prescription-use only.
Results are intended to
be used in conjunction
with clinical evaluation
as an aid in the
assessment of kidney
health.	
Detection Methodology			Reflectance photometry	Same
Detection Device			Photosensitive diode	Same
Measuring Range			10-150mg/L albumin
10-300 mg/dL
creatinine	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Camera Features			Advanced control of
white balance and
exposure	Without advanced
control

--- Page 5 ---
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
This was previously established in K210069.
2. Linearity:
This was previously established in K210069.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
This was previously established in K210069.
4. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
This was previously established in K210069.
5. Detection Limit/Cutoffs:
The sponsor collected a total of 57 urine samples from subjects with Diabetes Mellitus Type
II, Diabetes Mellitus Type I, Hypertension, Dyslipidemia, Cardiovascular disease, a known
kidney disease (e.g., Minimal Change Disease, Nephrolithiasis, IgA nephropathy), known
Malignancy (e.g., Prostate, Lymphoma), Autoimmune disease, Tobacco use disorder, and
obesity. The median age of this population was 61. The samples were pooled and diluted
with negative urine to produce different levels of albumin and creatinine.
Albumin and creatinine were measured in test samples using a commercially available device
that quantitatively measures albumin and creatinine in urine.
The sponsor conducted testing with 3 lots of their device. Several samples with albumin and
creatinine levels around the cutoffs were tested and the sponsor used a Probit model
described in the CLSI EP17-A2 guideline to estimate the C5, C50 and C95 for each of the
cutoffs. Testing was conducted with 8 representative smartphones.
The sponsor’s study supports that the modification to the device did not change the cutoffs
between the albumin and creatinine categories when the test is used with different
smartphones and operating systems.
6. Assay Cut-Off:
Not Applicable.
7. Accuracy (Instrument):
This was previously established in K210069.
K222921 - Page 5 of 8

--- Page 6 ---
8. Carry-Over:
This was previously established in K210069.
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
This was previously established in K210069.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not Applicable. This test is only for urine samples.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not Applicable.
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not Applicable.
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not Applicable.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not Applicable.
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
This was previously established in K210069.
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The sponsor conducted several validation studies with urine samples spiked with albumin and
creatinine to three levels of albumin, creatinine, and ACR. The expected results for the three levels of
urine samples tested were 10 mg/L, 30-80 mg/L, and 150 mg/L for albumin; 10 mg/dL, 50 mg/dL,
and 200-300 mg/dL for creatinine; Normal, Abnormal, and High-abnormal for ACR.
Illumination
Testing was conducted under different lighting conditions of different color “temperatures” and
intensities from different light sources representative of those that may be used in the home
setting. Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models using
K222921 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
different operating systems. The results of the study support that the performance is not impacted
by lighting conditions that are likely to be found in the home use environment.
Boundary conditions- extreme illumination
a) Testing was conducted under different lighting conditions with different saturation of red,
green, and blue light. Testing was conducted with 8 representative phones of different
models and operating systems. Phones were tested under “boundary conditions” that were
the maximum saturation of red, green, or blue light under which the device allowed the
phone to take a picture of the urine test strip and color-board (under red, green, or blue
light saturation that exceeded the boundary conditions, the application blocks the user
from taking a picture). The results of this testing support that the device performance is
not impacted by different light color saturation.
b) Testing was conducted under different light intensities (darkness and brightness measured
in lux). Testing was conducted with 8 representative phones of different models and
operating systems. Phones were tested under “boundary conditions” of light intensity that
were the minimum light intensity and the maximum light intensity at which the device
allows the phone to take a picture of the color board and urine test strip (under lighting
conditions that exceeded the “boundary conditions” of light intensity i.e., darkness or
brightness, the application blocks the user from taking a picture). The results of this
testing support that the device is not impacted by different light intensities.
Boundary conditions- Shadow
Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models and operating
systems under different shadow configurations of different intensity and covering different
portions of the color-board and urine test strip. Six different shadow configurations and 2
different shadow intensities were tested. For 3 of the shadow configurations, the device blocked
the user from taking a picture of the color-board and urine test strip. For the other 3 shadow
configurations, the device performance was not impacted by the presence of shadows on the
color-board and test strip.
Boundary conditions- Blurry
Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models and operating
systems under 14 different conditions of blurred images consisting of different levels of focus
and motion blur. Under conditions that the devices detected too much image blur, the user was
blocked from taking a picture of the color-board and the urine test strip. Under conditions where
the device allowed a picture of the color-board and urine test strip to be taken, the device
performance was not impacted by image blur.
Boundary conditions- Distance and Angle
Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models and operating
systems. Each phone was tested under “boundary conditions” that were 2 different distance
conditions and 2 different angle conditions. The distance conditions were the longest distance
from the color board and the shortest distance from the color board at which the device allowed
the phone to take a picture of the strip and color board (at longer or shorter distances, the device
K222921 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
blocks the user from taking a picture). The angle conditions were the most acute and most obtuse
angles at which the device allowed the phone to take a picture of the urine test strip and color
board (at more acute or obtuse angles, the device blocks the user from taking a picture). The
performance of the device was not impacted under these “boundary conditions”.
Boundary conditions- Misplaced Urine Strip
Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models and operating
systems with 8 different urine test strip placements. Of the 8 different placements, 4 urine test
strip placements were recognized as invalid by the device and the device blocked the user from
taking a picture of the color-board and urine test strip. When the device determined the stick
placement to be valid, variations in stick placement did not impact the performance of the
device.
Boundary conditions- Dirty Color-Board
Testing was conducted with 8 representative smart phones of different models and operating
systems. Testing was conducted with 3 substances (urine, coffee, and ink) and 4 different “dirty”
configurations covering different sections of the color-board and urine test strip. The device
blocked the user from taking a picture of the color-board and urine test strip under “dirty”
configurations that the device determined to be invalid. Under the “dirty” conditions the device
determined to be valid, the performance of the device was not impacted.
The sponsor’s studies support that under these conditions, the modified device will correctly
prevent unqualified images for downstream data analysis. For the qualified images, the
performance of the modified device is equivalent to that of the predicate.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K222921 - Page 8 of 8