
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K223016
B Applicant
BD
C Proprietary and Established Names
BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B CLIA-Waived Kit
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3328 -
PSZ Class II Influenza Virus Antigen MI - Microbiology
Detection Test System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
To establish Substantial Equivalence to a predicate device and to obtain 510(k) clearance
following modifications to the previously 510(k)-cleared BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection
of Flu A+B.
B Measurand:
Influenza A Nucleoprotein Antigen
Influenza B Nucleoprotein Antigen
C Type of Test:
Lateral flow immunochromatography
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PSZ			Class II	21 CFR 866.3328 -
Influenza Virus Antigen
Detection Test System			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B CLIA waived assay is a rapid
chromatographic immunoassay for the direct and qualitative detection of influenza A and B viral
nucleoprotein antigens from nasal and nasopharyngeal swabs of symptomatic patients. The BD
Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B (also referred to as the BD Veritor System and
BD Veritor System Flu A+B) is a differentiated test, such that influenza A viral antigens can be
distinguished from influenza B viral antigens from a single processed sample using a single
device. The test is to be used as an aid in the diagnosis of influenza A and B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive and it is recommended that these results be confirmed by viral
culture or an FDA-cleared influenza A and B molecular assay. Negative test results do not
preclude influenza viral infection and should not be used as the sole basis for treatment or other
patient management decisions. The test is not intended to detect influenza C antigens.
Performance characteristics for influenza A and B were established during January through
March of 2011 when influenza viruses A/2009 H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria lineage, and
B/Yamagata lineage were the predominant influenza viruses in circulation according to the
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report from the CDC entitled “Update: Influenza Activity—
United States, 2010-2011 Season, and Composition of the 2011- 2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics may vary against other emerging influenza viruses.
If infection with a novel influenza virus is suspected based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening criteria recommended by public health authorities, specimens should
be collected with appropriate infection control precautions for novel virulent influenza viruses
and sent to the state or local health department for testing. Virus culture should not be attempted
in these cases unless a BSL 3+ facility is available to receive and culture specimens.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
The BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B CLIA Waived Kit is intended for use
with the BD Veritor Plus Analyzer.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A+B is a rapid chromatographic
immunoassay for the direct and qualitative detection of influenza A and B viral antigens from
K223016 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
nasopharyngeal and nasal swabs of symptomatic patients. The test is to be used as an aid in the
diagnosis of influenza A and B viral infections. It is a differentiated test, such that influenza A
viral antigens can be distinguished from influenza B viral antigens from a single processed
sample using a single test device
When specimens are processed and added to the assay test device, any influenza A or B antigens
present in the specimen bind to antibodies conjugated to detector reagents in the test strip. The
antigen-conjugate complexes migrate across the test strip to the reaction area and are captured by
a line of antibodies bound on the reaction membrane. The BD Veritor test devices are designed
with spatially distinct reaction zones including:
- a test line position for each target analyte,
- positive and negative control line positions, and
- a background zone
The measurement of the background zone compensates for background reflectance on the test
strip, while the onboard negative control zone identifies and compensates for sample-related,
nonspecific signal.
The BD Veritor System consists of a dedicated opto-electronic interpretation instrument and
immunochromatographic assays for the qualitative detection of antigens from pathogenic
organisms in samples processed from respiratory specimens. The assay included in this
application is intended for interpretation in both laboratory and near-patient testing environments
only with the BD Veritor Plus Analyzer Instrument (“the Analyzer”) and is not interpreted
visually.
The Analyzer is a portable, electronic instrument that uses a reflectance-based measurement
method to evaluate line signal intensities on the assay test device. It applies assay-specific
firmware algorithms to determine the presence or absence of target analyte(s). The Analyzer is
powered by a rechargeable Li-ion battery and compact wall transformer, is intended for tabletop
or benchtop use, and follows the original BD Veritor instrument model of a calibration-free
limited lifetime based on the number of tests performed, the number of days from first use,
and/or the maximum shelf life from the date of manufacture. By design, the Analyzer has few
external means for user input or output. Operation requires minimal operator interaction to
complete testing and to report results. Analyzer workflow procedures depend on the instrument
configuration selected by the user. In Analyze Now mode, the instrument evaluates assay test
devices after manual timing of their incubation. In Walk Away mode, test devices are inserted
immediately after application of the specimen, and timing of assay incubation and analysis is
automated. In either case, assay results are provided to the operator on the LCD display screen.
Additional result documentation capabilities are possible with the use of a BD Veritor bar code
scanning module, which can capture, display and/or integrate barcoded specimen, operator or kit
information in the test record. This 510(k) application includes validation of a new accessory
module for the Analyzer that enables communication of test results to a facility WiFi network
and integration into a secure data depository and then delivery to a facility LIS system.
B Principle of Operation:
Immunochromatographic separation of influenza A or B antigen-antibody complexes detected
via opto-electronic reader.
C Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
BD Veritor Plus Analyzer
K223016 - Page 3 of 8

--- Page 4 ---
2. Specimen Identification:
Specimens ID’s may be manually entered or scanned via the barcode scanner.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Dry swab samples from nasopharyngeal or nasal swabs are manually transferred to test kit
reagent tubes for elution and drop-wise addition to the test cassette.
4. Calibration:
Calibration is not recommended.
5. Quality Control:
The test includes a positive control to ensure adequate migration of the reagents through the
test membrane to the desired test line locations for the reader. The test also contains a
negative control to test for non-specific binding and two background test regions to measure
assay background when calculating test line signal strength. Each kit also contains positive
control swabs for Influenza A and Influenza B. It is the manufacturer’s recommendation that
positive controls be run after every new kit lot, a new operator performs the test, a new
shipment of test kits is received, and as required by local, state, and federal regulations.
This medical device product has functions subject to FDA premarket review as well as functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review. For this application, if the product has functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review, FDA assessed those functions only to the extent
that they either could adversely impact the safety and effectiveness of the functions subject to
FDA premarket review or they are included as a labeled positive impact that was considered in
the assessment of the functions subject to FDA premarket review.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
BD Veritor System for Rapid Detection of Flu A + B CLIA waived kit
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K180438
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K223016 K180438
Device(s):
BD Veritor System for BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu Rapid Detection of Flu
Device Trade Name
A+B CLIA waived A+B CLIA waived
assay (modified) assay
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
K223016 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K223016	K180438
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu
A+B CLIA waived
assay (modified)	BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu
A+B CLIA waived
assay
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			

--- Page 5 ---
The BD Veritor System for The BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu A+B Rapid Detection of Flu A+B
CLIA waived assay is a CLIA waived assay is a
rapid chromatographic rapid chromatographic
immunoassay for the direct immunoassay for the direct
and qualitative detection of and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral influenza A and B viral
nucleoprotein antigens from nucleoprotein antigens from
nasal and nasopharyngeal nasal and nasopharyngeal
swabs of symptomatic swabs of symptomatic
patients. The BD Veritor patients. The BD Veritor
System for Rapid Detection System for Rapid Detection
of Flu A+B (also referred to of Flu A+B (also referred to
as the BD Veritor System as the BD Veritor System
and BD Veritor System Flu and BD Veritor System Flu
A+B) is a differentiated test, A+B) is a differentiated test,
such that influenza A viral such that influenza A viral
antigens can be distinguished antigens can be distinguished
from influenza B viral from influenza B viral
antigens from a single antigens from a single
processed sample using a processed sample using a
single device. The test is to single device. The test is to
be used as an aid in the be used as an aid in the
diagnosis of influenza A and diagnosis of influenza A and
B viral infections. A B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive negative test is presumptive
and it is recommended that and it is recommended that
these results be confirmed by these results be confirmed by
Intended Use/Indications viral culture or an FDA viral culture or an FDA
For Use cleared influenza A and B cleared influenza A and B
molecular assay. molecular assay. Outside the
U.S., a negative test is
Negative test results do not presumptive and it is
preclude influenza viral recommended that these
infection and should not be results be confirmed by viral
used as the sole basis for culture or a molecular assay
treatment or other patient cleared for diagnostic use in
management decisions. The the country of use. FDA has
test is not intended to detect not cleared this device for
influenza C antigens. use outside of the U.S.
Performance characteristics Negative test results do not
for influenza A and B were preclude influenza viral
established during January infection and should not be
through March of 2011 when used as the sole basis for
influenza viruses A/2009 treatment or other patient
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria management decisions. The
lineage, and B/Yamagata test is not intended to detect
lineage were the influenza C antigens.
predominant influenza
viruses in circulation Performance characteristics
according to the Morbidity for influenza A and B were
and Mortality Weekly established during January
Report from the CDC through March of 2011 when
entitled “Update: Influenza influenza viruses A/2009
Activity—United States, H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria
2010-2011 Season, and lineage, and B/Yamagata
Composition of the 2011- lineage were the
K223016 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
Intended Use/Indications
For Use	The BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu A+B
CLIA waived assay is a
rapid chromatographic
immunoassay for the direct
and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral
nucleoprotein antigens from
nasal and nasopharyngeal
swabs of symptomatic
patients. The BD Veritor
System for Rapid Detection
of Flu A+B (also referred to
as the BD Veritor System
and BD Veritor System Flu
A+B) is a differentiated test,
such that influenza A viral
antigens can be distinguished
from influenza B viral
antigens from a single
processed sample using a
single device. The test is to
be used as an aid in the
diagnosis of influenza A and
B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive
and it is recommended that
these results be confirmed by
viral culture or an FDA
cleared influenza A and B
molecular assay.
Negative test results do not
preclude influenza viral
infection and should not be
used as the sole basis for
treatment or other patient
management decisions. The
test is not intended to detect
influenza C antigens.
Performance characteristics
for influenza A and B were
established during January
through March of 2011 when
influenza viruses A/2009
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria
lineage, and B/Yamagata
lineage were the
predominant influenza
viruses in circulation
according to the Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly
Report from the CDC
entitled “Update: Influenza
Activity—United States,
2010-2011 Season, and
Composition of the 2011-	The BD Veritor System for
Rapid Detection of Flu A+B
CLIA waived assay is a
rapid chromatographic
immunoassay for the direct
and qualitative detection of
influenza A and B viral
nucleoprotein antigens from
nasal and nasopharyngeal
swabs of symptomatic
patients. The BD Veritor
System for Rapid Detection
of Flu A+B (also referred to
as the BD Veritor System
and BD Veritor System Flu
A+B) is a differentiated test,
such that influenza A viral
antigens can be distinguished
from influenza B viral
antigens from a single
processed sample using a
single device. The test is to
be used as an aid in the
diagnosis of influenza A and
B viral infections. A
negative test is presumptive
and it is recommended that
these results be confirmed by
viral culture or an FDA
cleared influenza A and B
molecular assay. Outside the
U.S., a negative test is
presumptive and it is
recommended that these
results be confirmed by viral
culture or a molecular assay
cleared for diagnostic use in
the country of use. FDA has
not cleared this device for
use outside of the U.S.
Negative test results do not
preclude influenza viral
infection and should not be
used as the sole basis for
treatment or other patient
management decisions. The
test is not intended to detect
influenza C antigens.
Performance characteristics
for influenza A and B were
established during January
through March of 2011 when
influenza viruses A/2009
H1N1, A/H3N2, B/Victoria
lineage, and B/Yamagata
lineage were the

--- Page 6 ---
2012 Influenza Vaccine.” predominant influenza
Performance characteristics viruses in circulation
may vary against other according to the Morbidity
emerging influenza viruses. and Mortality Weekly
Report from the CDC
If infection with a novel entitled “Update: Influenza
influenza virus is suspected Activity—United States,
based on current clinical and 2010-2011 Season, and
epidemiological screening Composition of the 2011-
criteria recommended by 2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
public health authorities, Performance characteristics
specimens should be may vary against other
collected with appropriate emerging influenza viruses.
infection control precautions
for novel virulent influenza If infection with a novel
viruses and sent to the state influenza virus is suspected
or local health department based on current clinical and
for testing. Virus culture epidemiological screening
should not be attempted in criteria recommended by
these cases unless a BSL 3+ public health authorities,
facility is available to specimens should be
receive and culture collected with appropriate
specimens. infection control precautions
for novel virulent influenza
viruses and sent to the state
or local health department
for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+
facility is available to
receive and culture
specimens.
Specimen Types Same NPS and NS
Same Chromatographic
Assay Technology
Immunoassay
Detection Format Same Opto-electronic reader
Type of test Same Qualitative
Same Detection and
differentiation of
Analyte detection
Influenza A and
Influenza B antigens
Same BD Veritor Plus
Instrument
Analyzer
Analzyer software Same Version 5.70
Assay positivity algorithm Same Original
Assay cutoff threshold Same
Original
determination
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Original plus
Analyzer trigger board Original
overvoltage protection
K223016 - Page 6 of 8

[Table 1 on page 6]
			2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics
may vary against other
emerging influenza viruses.
If infection with a novel
influenza virus is suspected
based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening
criteria recommended by
public health authorities,
specimens should be
collected with appropriate
infection control precautions
for novel virulent influenza
viruses and sent to the state
or local health department
for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+
facility is available to
receive and culture
specimens.	predominant influenza
viruses in circulation
according to the Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly
Report from the CDC
entitled “Update: Influenza
Activity—United States,
2010-2011 Season, and
Composition of the 2011-
2012 Influenza Vaccine.”
Performance characteristics
may vary against other
emerging influenza viruses.
If infection with a novel
influenza virus is suspected
based on current clinical and
epidemiological screening
criteria recommended by
public health authorities,
specimens should be
collected with appropriate
infection control precautions
for novel virulent influenza
viruses and sent to the state
or local health department
for testing. Virus culture
should not be attempted in
these cases unless a BSL 3+
facility is available to
receive and culture
specimens.
Specimen Types			Same	NPS and NS
Assay Technology			Same	Chromatographic
Immunoassay
Detection Format			Same	Opto-electronic reader
Type of test			Same	Qualitative
Analyte detection			Same	Detection and
differentiation of
Influenza A and
Influenza B antigens
Instrument			Same	BD Veritor Plus
Analyzer
Analzyer software			Same	Version 5.70
Assay positivity algorithm			Same	Original
Assay cutoff threshold
determination			Same	Original
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Analyzer trigger board			Original plus
overvoltage protection	Original

--- Page 7 ---
10,000 Tests 3,500 Tests
24 months from first 24 months from first
Instrument Lifetime use use
34 months from date of 34 months from date of
manufacture manufacture
InfoScan module
Supplemental modules or InfoScan module
PlusConnect software
software PlusConnect software
InfoWifi software
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
No Standard/Special Control/Guidance Documents were referenced.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
Not applicable. Please refer to Decision Summary K180438.
B Comparison Studies:
Not applicable.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Clinical Sensitivity remains unchanged since K180438. See K180438 for more information.
2. Clinical Specificity:
Clinical Specificity remains unchanged since K180438. See K180438 for more information.
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
None.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
The Clinical Cut-Off remains unchanged since K180438. See K180438 for more information.
K223016 - Page 7 of 8

[Table 1 on page 7]
Instrument Lifetime	10,000 Tests
24 months from first
use
34 months from date of
manufacture	3,500 Tests
24 months from first
use
34 months from date of
manufacture
Supplemental modules or
software	InfoScan module
PlusConnect software
InfoWifi software	InfoScan module
PlusConnect software

--- Page 8 ---
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Expected Values remains unchanged since K180438. See K180438 for more information
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K223016 - Page 8 of 8