
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K231824
B Applicant
Insulet Corporation
C Proprietary and Established Names
SmartBolus Calculator
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
QRX Class II CH - Clinical Chemistry
Therapy Adjustment Device
21 CFR 868.1890 - Predictive
NDC Class II pulmonary-function value CH - Clinical Chemistry
calculator
E Purpose for Submission:
Modifications to the device to add compatibility with the iOS version of the Omnipod 5 App
component of the Omnipod 5 ACE Pump.
II Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The SmartBolus Calculator is software intended for the management of diabetes in persons aged
2 and older requiring rapid-acting U-100 insulin. The SmartBolus Calculator calculates a
suggested bolus dose based on user-entered carbohydrates, most recent sensor glucose value (or
blood glucose reading if using fingerstick), rate of change of the sensor glucose (if applicable),
insulin on board (IOB), and programmable correction factor, insulin to carbohydrate ratio, and
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QRX			Class II	21 CFR 862.1358 - Insulin
Therapy Adjustment Device			CH - Clinical Chemistry
NDC			Class II	21 CFR 868.1890 - Predictive
pulmonary-function value
calculator			CH - Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
target glucose value. The SmartBolus Calculator is intended for single patient, home use and
requires a prescription.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx – For prescription use only.
This device resides in the Omnipod 5 App and requires the App to function.
The SmartBolus Calculator works with the following rapid-acting U-100 insulins: NovoLog®
(insulin aspart), Humalog® (insulin lispro), and Admelog® (insulin lispro).
III Device Description
The SmartBolus Calculator is a software device that resides in the Omnipod 5 App.
It requires input parameters and settings from the SmartAdjustTM Technology, a glycemic
controller (iAGC) and glucose values from a compatible integrated continuous glucose
monitoring system (iCGM) or blood glucose (BG) values from a blood glucose meter to
calculate suggested insulin bolus doses. The SmartBolus Calculator can be used in both open-
loop (manual mode) and closed-loop (automated mode). When used with a compatible iCGM,
the SmartBolus Calculator can use the sensor glucose values and trend information to calculate a
suggested bolus dose. When the SmartBolus Calculator is used with manually entered BG
readings it suggests a bolus dose based on the same calculations as the currently cleared
Omnipod DASH Insulin Management System bolus calculator (K180045, K192659).
IV Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
SmartBolus Calculator
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K222239
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K231824 K222239
Device(s):
Device Trade Name SmartBolus Calculator SmartBolus Calculator
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
The SmartBolus Calculator is
Intended software intended for the
Use/Indications For management of diabetes in Same
Use persons aged 2 and older
requiring rapid-acting U-100
K231824 - Page 2 of 4

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Device & Predicate		K231824	K222239
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			SmartBolus Calculator	SmartBolus Calculator
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Similarities			
Intended
Use/Indications For
Use			The SmartBolus Calculator is
software intended for the
management of diabetes in
persons aged 2 and older
requiring rapid-acting U-100	Same

--- Page 3 ---
insulin. The SmartBolus
Calculator calculates a
suggested bolus dose based
on user-entered
carbohydrates, most recent
sensor glucose value (or
blood glucose reading if using
fingerstick), rate of change of
the sensor glucose (if
applicable), insulin on board
(IOB), and programmable
correction factor, insulin to
carbohydrate ratio, and target
glucose value. The
SmartBolus Calculator is
intended for single patient,
home use and requires a
prescription.
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
Omnipod 5 App iOS and Android Operating Android Operating
Operating System System System
V Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices – Application of Risk Management to Medical
Devices
IEC 62304:2015-05 Medical devices Software – (Software life cycle processes)
VI Performance Characteristics:
A. Analytical Performance
The SmartBolus Calculator is a software-only device, and therefore analytical performance
characteristics are not applicable.
B. Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data
1. Human Factors:
The SmartBolus Calculator is a component of the Omnipod 5 System. Human factors
validation testing was conducted with the Omnipod 5 App (iOS) installed on a compatible
mobile device. Human Factors validation study on the Omnipod 5 System as a whole was
performed with 60 representative participants and is described in the Decision Summary for
K231826.
K231824 - Page 3 of 4

[Table 1 on page 3]
			insulin. The SmartBolus
Calculator calculates a
suggested bolus dose based
on user-entered
carbohydrates, most recent
sensor glucose value (or
blood glucose reading if using
fingerstick), rate of change of
the sensor glucose (if
applicable), insulin on board
(IOB), and programmable
correction factor, insulin to
carbohydrate ratio, and target
glucose value. The
SmartBolus Calculator is
intended for single patient,
home use and requires a
prescription.	
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Differences			
Omnipod 5 App
Operating System			iOS and Android Operating
System	Android Operating
System

--- Page 4 ---
2. Software:
Detailed information on software of the device was reviewed and found to be acceptable.
VII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
VIII Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K231824 - Page 4 of 4