
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K232741
B Applicant
Insulet Corporation
C Proprietary and Established Names
SmartAdjust™ technology
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1356 -
Interoperable CH - Clinical
QJI Class II
Automated Glycemic Chemistry
Controller
E Purpose for Submission:
To update the performance specifications for connected integrated continuous glucose monitors
(iCGM) in accordance with 21 CFR 862.1356(1)(iv).
II Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
SmartAdjust™ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose
monitors (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase,
decrease, and pause delivery of insulin based on current and predicted glucose values.
SmartAdjust™ technology is intended for the management of type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons
2 years of age and older. SmartAdjust™ technology is intended for single patient use and
requires a prescription.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QJI			Class II	21 CFR 862.1356 -
Interoperable
Automated Glycemic
Controller			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
• SmartAdjust™ technology should not be used by anyone under the age of 2 years old.
• SmartAdjust™ technology should also NOT be used in people who require less than 5 units
of insulin per day as the safety of the technology has not been evaluated in this population.
• Do not use SmartAdjust™ technology in pregnant women, critically ill patients, and those on
dialysis. The safety of the SmartAdjust™ technology has not been evaluated in these
populations.
• Do not use SmartAdjust™ technology if you are taking hydroxyurea as it could lead to
falsely elevated CGM values and result in over-delivery of insulin that can lead to severe
hypoglycemia.
• Do not use SmartAdjust™ technology if you do NOT have adequate hearing and/or vision to
allow recognition of all functions of the Omnipod 5 System, including alerts, alarms, and
reminders.
• SmartAdjust™ technology used with the Omnipod 5 System is designed to use rapid-acting
U- 100 insulins. The following U-100 rapid-acting insulin analogs have been tested and
found to be safe for use in the Pod: NovoLog® (insulin aspart), Humalog® (insulin lispro),
and Admelog® (insulin lispro) for use up to 72 hours (3 days). Before using a different
insulin with the Omnipod 5 System, check the insulin drug label and consult your healthcare
provider. Refer to the insulin labeling and follow your healthcare provider’s directions for
how often to replace the Pod.
• SmartAdjust™ technology used with the Omnipod 5 System relies on accurate, current CGM
values to determine your insulin needs. Always make sure you are using the CGM per
manufacturer's instructions and do not extend the sensor wear beyond the recommended
duration.
• Do NOT attempt to use the SmartAdjust™ technology with the Omnipod 5 System before
you receive training. Inadequate training could put your health and safety at risk.
• Device components used with the SmartAdjust™ technology including the pod, CGM
transmitter, and CGM sensor must be removed before Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI),
Computed Tomoraphy (CT) scan, or diathermy treatment. In addition, the SmartAdjust™
Controller and smartphone should be placed outside of the precedure room. Exposure to
MRI, CT, or diathery treatment can damage the components.
K232741 - Page 2 of 5

--- Page 3 ---
III Device Description:
SmartAdjust™ technology (the Omnipod 5 interoperable automated glycemic controller, or
iAGC) is a software-only medical device intended for the management of type 1 diabetes
mellitus. The Omnipod 5 iAGC uses data from a connected iCGM along with user-defined
parameters to predict future glucose trends and automatically increase, decrease, or pause the
delivery of insulin via a compatible alternate controller enabled (ACE) pump.
The SmartAdjust™ technology software is part of the Omnipod 5 Automated Insulin Delivery
System, which also includes the Omnipod 5 ACE Pump (K203768), Omnipod 5 Bolus
Calculator (K203772), and an integrated continuous glucose monitor (iCGM, Dexcom G6, most
recently cleared under K201328). The SmartAdjust™ technology is intended to be digitally
connected to an iCGM and an ACE Pump.
The SmartAdjust™ technology software resides on the Omnipod 5 ACE Pump (the Omnipod 5
Pod and Omnipod 5 App). The iAGC software is responsible for controlling insulin delivery via
compatible ACE Pump when the system is in Automated Mode. iCGM data is transmitted from
the iCGM to the ACE Pump via Bluetooth Low Energy technology. The SmartAdjust™
Technology uses this transmitted iCGM data in its calculations. The SmartAdjust™ technology
can be turned off, and the Omnipod 5 ACE Pump will operate in Manual Mode, which delivers
insulin based on healthcare provider (HCP) or user-defined basal programs.
The SmartAdjust™ technology has three states of operation: Automated Mode, Automated:
Limited, and Activity. In Automated Mode, the system calculates insulin delivery every 5
minutes based on the user-customizable glucose target (110–150 mg/dL). Automated: Limited is
enabled when the SmartAdjust™ technology is not receiving data from a connected iCGM for 20
minutes or more and during sensor warm-up. While in Automated: Limited, the user will receive
no more than pre-programmed basal insulin. When a valid glucose value is received from the
iCGM, the SmartAdjust™ technology will resume delivery of insulin in full Automated Mode.
Activity is a temporary mode which the user may select for various time durations during
automated mode up to 24 hours. With Activity, the algorithm reduces insulin delivery and sets a
temporary glucose target to 150 mg/dL. Activity is intended for use during periods when insulin
sensitivity is expected to be higher, such as during exercise.
IV Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
SmartAdjust™ technology
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K220394
K232741 - Page 3 of 5

--- Page 4 ---
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K232741 K220394
Device(s):
Device Trade Name SmartAdjust™ technology SmartAdjust™ technology
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
SmartAdjust™ technology is
intended for use with
compatible integrated
continuous glucose monitors
(iCGM) and alternate
controller enabled (ACE)
pumps to automatically
increase, decrease, and pause
delivery of insulin based on
Intended Use/Indications
current and predicted Same
For Use
glucose values.
SmartAdjust™ technology is
intended for the management
of type 1 diabetes mellitus in
persons 2 years of age and
older. SmartAdjust™
technology is intended for
single patient use and
requires a prescription.
General Device
Characteristic Differences
iCGM performance
specifications defined for the
iCGM Performance sensor lifetime performance iCGM performance
Specifications per 21 CFR and includes specifications. specifications defined for the
862.1356(1)(iv) for iCGMs with labeled sensor lifetime performance.
adjunctive use for periods of
up to 12 hours.
V Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• ANSI AAMI ISO 14971:2019 – Medical devices – Applications of risk management to
medical devices
• ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016 – Medical device software – Software life cycle
processes
K232741 - Page 4 of 5

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K232741	K220394
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			SmartAdjust™ technology	SmartAdjust™ technology
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			SmartAdjust™ technology is
intended for use with
compatible integrated
continuous glucose monitors
(iCGM) and alternate
controller enabled (ACE)
pumps to automatically
increase, decrease, and pause
delivery of insulin based on
current and predicted
glucose values.
SmartAdjust™ technology is
intended for the management
of type 1 diabetes mellitus in
persons 2 years of age and
older. SmartAdjust™
technology is intended for
single patient use and
requires a prescription.	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
iCGM Performance
Specifications per 21 CFR
862.1356(1)(iv)			iCGM performance
specifications defined for the
sensor lifetime performance
and includes specifications.
for iCGMs with labeled
adjunctive use for periods of
up to 12 hours.	iCGM performance
specifications defined for the
sensor lifetime performance.

--- Page 5 ---
VI Performance Characteristics:
A Analytical Performance:
The SmartAdjust™ technology is a software-only device, therefore analytical
performance characteristics are not applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The updated SmartAdjust™ performance specifications for compatible iCGMs were validated
via dynamic in-silico simulations designed to evaluate the glucose control performance of
SmartAdjust™ technology in an iCGM error model structure. The in-silico population was
distributed by age and total daily insulin requirements that was statistically representative of the
intended use population, and included virtual subjects derived as digital twins from subjects in
the pivotal clinical study (K203774). Each virtual subject was challenged with 6480 simulation
scenarios with varying combinations of virtual glycemic conditions (e.g., iAGC glucose target,
starting glucose level, meal profiles, and variation in insulin needs) and iCGM error (e.g.,
sensing lag, sensor bias, and measurement noise) over a duration of 12 hours to simulate pre-
prandial conditions, post prandial glucose excursions and insulin responses of the SmartAdjust™
technology. All simulation results were analyzed for the potential risk of hypoglycemia, potential
risk of hyperglycemia, and the glycemic outcomes (time in range, time above range, time below
range) when comparing simulated outcomes before and after the change to compatible iCGM
performance specifications. The results of the simulations were reviewed and found to be
adequate to support the iCGM performance specifications required for the connected continuous
glucose monitor in accordance with 21 CFR 862.1356(b)(1)(iv).
VII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
VIII Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K232741 - Page 5 of 5