
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K232075
B Applicant
Nova Biomedical Corporation
C Proprietary and Established Names
StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1345 - CH - Clinical
PZI Class II
Glucose Test System Chemistry
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
This submission is a Dual 510(k) and CLIA Waiver by Application (Dual Submission) tracked as
K232075 and CW230017. This 510(k) is for modifications to a previously cleared device
(K181043).
B Measurand:
Glucose in capillary finger stick whole blood, venous whole blood, arterial whole blood,
neonatal arterial whole blood samples, and neonatal heel stick.
C Type of Test:
Quantitative amperometric assay, glucose oxidase
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PZI			Class II	21 CFR 862.1345 -
Glucose Test System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System is intended for point-of-care, in vitro diagnostic,
multiple-patient use for the quantitative determination of glucose in capillary finger stick, venous
whole blood, arterial whole blood, neonate arterial whole blood, and neonatal heel stick
specimens throughout all hospital and all professional healthcare settings, including patients
receiving intensive medical intervention/therapy.
The system should only be used with single-use, auto-disabling lancing devices when performing
a capillary finger stick or neonatal heel stick.
It is not intended for use with neonate cord blood specimens.
It is not intended for the screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus but is indicated for use in
determining dysglycemia.
The StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System includes the following components:
- StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter
- StatStrip Glucose Test Strips
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
o
For in vitro diagnostic use only
o
Blood source - Use only whole blood. Do not use serum or plasma.
o
Temperature and humidity extremes - Test results may be inaccurate when test strips are
o
stored outside of the storage and handling conditions.
Altitudes above 15,000 feet (4572 meters) above sea level have not been evaluated.
o
Specimens - Only fresh whole blood or whole blood collected in lithium heparin
o
collection devices should be used for arterial and venous specimens.
Fluoride, EDTA, Sodium, and Ammonium blood collection devices should not be used
o
for arterial and venous specimens.
It is not intended for screening or diagnosis of diabetes mellitus but is indicated for use in
o
determining dysglycemia.
The system has not been evaluated for use with neonate venous blood.
o
The system has not been evaluated with alternative site testing (AST).
o
The system has not been evaluated for use in Tight Glycemic Control protocols as
o
reported in the Greet Van den Berghe or NICE-SUGAR (Normoglycemia in Intensive
Care Evaluation and Survival Using Glucose Algorithm Regulation) studies.
Glucose results from alternative sampling sites should not be used to calibrate continuous
o
glucose monitoring systems (CGMS) or entered into insulin dose calculators for dosage
recommendations.
Only auto-disabling, single use lancing devices may be used with this device
o
Ranges for the StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter using other commercially available
o
glucose controls have not been established and may give erroneous results.
K232075 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
D Special Instrument Requirements:
StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System (previously cleared under K060345, K063821,
K132121, K150281 and K181043) consists of a handheld StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter with
docking station and StatStrip Glucose Test Strips (sold separately). The Nova StatStrip Control
Solutions (Levels 1, 2 and 3) and Nova StatStrip Linearity Test Kit solutions (5 levels) are also
sold separately.
Modifications to the device include a change of the position of the test strip port, addition of
wireless charging, changes to the user interface, increase in data storage capacity of operator
records and the addition of a validated cleaning and disinfecting wipe.
B Principle of Operation:
The StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System is based on electrochemical biosensor technology
and the principle of capillary action. The system quantitatively measures blood glucose levels
using glucose oxidase enzyme chemistry. The electrons generated during this reaction are
transferred from the blood to the electrodes. The magnitude of the resultant current is
proportional to the concentration of glucose in the specimen and the signal is converted into a
plasma equivalent result and is displayed on the meter.
C Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter
2. Specimen Identification:
A built-in barcode scanner allows for scanning of the operator ID, patient ID and lot
numbers. These fields can also be manually entered. The StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter
memory will store 1500 patient tests, 8000 operator records 200 QC test results.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
The glucose test is intended to be used with capillary fingerstick whole blood, arterial,
venous, neonatal heel stick and neonatal arterial. The blood sample is applied directly to the
test strip by capillary action.
The meter stores patient test data, quality control test data, and other information relating to
the patient, patient sample, operator, reagents, and meter. Data is transferred bi-directionally
K232075 - Page 3 of 8

--- Page 4 ---
between the meter, data docking station, and separate data management system each time a
meter is placed into a data docking station.
4. Calibration:
The meter does not require the user to input a test strip code or perform any other calibration.
5. Quality Control:
Three levels of control solutions (Level 1, Level 2, Level 3) and five levels of linearity
solutions (Level 1, Level 2, Level 3, Level 4, Level 5) are available for use with the StatStrip
Glucose Hospital Meter System. Recommendations on when to test the control materials are
provided in the labeling.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K181043
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K232075 K181043
Device(s):
StatStrip Glucose StatStrip Glucose
Device Trade Name
Hospital Meter System Hospital Meter System
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Intended for the
quantitative
determination of
glucose in capillary
finger stick, venous
whole blood, arterial
whole blood, neonate
Intended Use/Indications
arterial whole blood and Same
For Use
neonate heel stick
specimens for use in
determining
dysglycemia throughout
all hospital and all
professional healthcare
settings
K232075 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K232075	K181043
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			StatStrip Glucose
Hospital Meter System	StatStrip Glucose
Hospital Meter System
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			Intended for the
quantitative
determination of
glucose in capillary
finger stick, venous
whole blood, arterial
whole blood, neonate
arterial whole blood and
neonate heel stick
specimens for use in
determining
dysglycemia throughout
all hospital and all
professional healthcare
settings	Same

--- Page 5 ---
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Yes, 3.6V Li Polymer Yes, 3.7V Li Polymer
Battery Battery (rechargeable) Battery (rechargeable)
2200 mAh 1250 mAh
Software Operating System
Linux Windows CE
(OS)
Data storage 1500 patient tests, 8000 1500 patient tests, 4000
operator records, 200 operator records
QC test results
Wireless Charging Yes No
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
EN 60601-1-2:2014, Edition 4, Medical electrical equipment. Part 1-2: Collateral standard.
Electromagnetic compatibility. Requirements and tests
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Precision was previously established in K060345. The sponsor conducted a supplementary
precision assessment demonstrating that the precision of the device was not impacted by the
modification.
2. Linearity:
As established in K063821, the reportable range for the Nova StatStrip Glucose Hospital
Meter System is 10 to 600 mg/dL.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Potential interference from common endogenous and exogenous substances, as well as in
vivo interference, was evaluated in K060345 and K132121.
4. Assay Reportable Range:
As established in K063821, the reportable range for the Nova StatStrip Glucose Hospital
Meter System is 10 to 600 mg/dL.
K232075 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Battery			Yes, 3.6V Li Polymer
Battery (rechargeable)
2200 mAh	Yes, 3.7V Li Polymer
Battery (rechargeable)
1250 mAh
Software Operating System
(OS)			Linux	Windows CE
Data storage			1500 patient tests, 8000
operator records, 200
QC test results	1500 patient tests, 4000
operator records
Wireless Charging			Yes	No

--- Page 6 ---
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Traceability to NIST Standard SRM917B, as established in K060345.
Test strip stability:
Test strip stability protocols and acceptance criteria were evaluated in K060345 and were
found to be acceptable to support the claimed shelf life of 24 months at 33-86°F and 10-90%
relative humidity (RH) and the claimed open-vial stability of 180 days when stored at the
recommended storage temperatures 33-86°F and 10-90% RH or until the expiration date
printed on the label, whichever comes first. The labeling instructs the users not to freeze the
test strips.
6. Detection Limit:
This range was verified by the linearity established in K063821.
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
8. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable.
9. Carry-Over:
Not applicable.
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
Performance for capillary finger stick, venous whole blood and arterial whole blood samples
from non-hospitalized patients was established in K060345.
Performance for neonatal heel stick and neonatal arterial samples was established in
K063821.
Performance for venous and arterial, neonatal heel sticks and neonatal arterial samples from
patients throughout the hospital was established in K132121.
Performance for capillary whole blood samples for use in all hospitalized patients was
established in K181043.
The sponsor conducted a supplementary accuracy assessment demonstrating that the
performance of the device was not impacted by the modification.
K232075 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable.
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
A usability study was conducted in which the changes to the device (e.g., relocation of the
test strip port, use of a new bar code scanner, scroll functionality, etc.) were evaluated by
CLIA waived users. The operators were given the meter, test strips, control solutions, user
manual and the quick reference guide in order to perform the test. No other materials or
instructions were provided, and the operators received no additional training to perform the
test. Upon completion, each operator completed a questionnaire to evaluate the ease of using
the candidate device. The participants were able to successfully perform the test, received
accurate results, and found the StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter System easy to use and the
user manual and the quick reference guide easy to follow.
Supplemental bench accuracy studies were performed, in which the results from venous
whole blood samples obtained from the StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter were compared to
the results from the comparator method (YSI 2300 STAT Glucose and L-Lactate analyzer)
and were compared to results from matched samples on the predicate. The results were
found to be acceptable to support the device modifications.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
The following is included in the labeling:
Normal (non-diabetic) adult fasting: Less than 100 mg/dL (5.55 mmol/L) and less than 140
mg/dL (7.77 mmol/L) 1-2 hours after meals.
American Diabetes Association. Classification and Diagnosis of Diabetes: Standards of Medical
care in Diabetes. Diabetes Care (2018), Volume 41, Supplement 1.
K232075 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Infection Control:
The device is intended for multiple-patient use. To support the changes to the exterior of the
meter and the additional claimed cleaning and disinfecting wipe, the sponsor conducted cleaning
and disinfection studies with the modified meter. Disinfection efficacy studies were performed
on the external meter materials by an outside commercial testing laboratory demonstrating
complete inactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with each of the chosen disinfectants
separately, Clorox Germicidal Wipes (EPA registration # 67619-12) and Super Sani Disposable
Wipes (EPA registration #9480-4). A robustness study was also conducted by the sponsor that
demonstrated that there was no change in performance or in the external materials of the meter
after 10,950 cleaning and disinfection cycles (one cycle includes one cleaning wipe plus one
disinfecting wipe) using both of the wipes separately to simulate 3 years of multiple-patient
device use. Labeling was reviewed for adequate instructions for the validated cleaning and
disinfection procedures.
EMC:
The sponsor provided documentation certifying that acceptable electrical safety and
electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing had been performed and the system was found to
be compliant.
Software and Cybersecurity:
The sponsor provided documentation certifying that acceptable software validation and
cybersecurity testing had been performed and the system was found to be compliant.
Battery life:
A battery consumption and battery life study was performed to assess the number of tests that
can be run under normal operating conditions without recharging and demonstrated that the
rechargeable battery will last as long as the meter life (minimum of 3 years).
Physical trauma to the meter:
A study was performed to confirm that there are no problems with the functionality of the
StatStrip Glucose Hospital Meter following drop unit testing. The meter was dropped 10 times
from a height of 60 inches such that each face of the item made impact with a hard surface (e.g.
tile floor). All of the verification results were within the criteria limits and no deterioration in
functionality was observed.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K232075 - Page 8 of 8