
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K232669
B Applicant
Abbott Laboratories
C Proprietary and Established Names
TBI
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.5830 - Brain
QAT Class II IM - Immunology
trauma assessment test
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device. (For a
preamendments device, a statement to this effect has been provided.)
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QAT			Class II	21 CFR 866.5830 - Brain
trauma assessment test			IM - Immunology

--- Page 2 ---
This change was for modification of the cleared TBI test for use on the ARCHITECT
i1000SR System due to the identification during design evaluation of the potential for
reagent carryover with 25-OH Vitamin D assay that may lead to elevated GFAP assay
results. A limitation in the package insert for the TBI test for use on the ARCHITECT
i1000SR System informs users of a potential risk for false positive TBI results for the
GFAP assay when the TBI test is run after the 25-OH Vitamin D assay and provides
actions to take to mitigate potential contamination after 25-OH Vitamin D assay testing.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared (or their preamendment) device.
K232669 - Page 2 of 2