
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K232833
B Applicant
Indica Labs, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
HALO AP Dx
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
QKQ Class II PA - Pathology
Slide Imaging System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device
B Type of Test:
Software only device
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QKQ			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
Slide Imaging System			PA - Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
HALO AP Dx is a software only device intended as an aid to the pathologist to review, interpret
and manage digital images of scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue for the purposes of pathology primary diagnosis. HALO AP Dx
is not intended for use with frozen section, cytology, or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and safeguards
to assure the quality of the images obtained and, where necessary, use conventional light
microscopy review when making a diagnostic decision. HALO AP Dx is intended for use with
the Hamamatsu NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner and the JVC Kenwood JD-C240BN01A
display.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
HALO AP Dx, version 2.1 is a browser-based software-only device intended to aid pathology
professionals in viewing, manipulating, management, and interpretation of digital pathology
whole slide images (WSI) of glass slides obtained from the Hamamatsu Photonics K.K.
NanoZoomer S360MD scanner and viewed on the JVC Kenwood JD-C240BN01A display.
HALO AP Dx is operated as follows:
1. Image acquisition is performed using the predicate device, NanoZoomer S360MD Slide
scanner according to its Instructions for Use. The operator performs quality control of the
digital slides per the instructions of the NanoZoomer and lab specifications to determine if
re-scans are necessary.
2. Once image acquisition is complete, the unaltered image is saved in an external image
storage location. HALO AP Dx ingests the image and a copy of image metadata is stored in
the subject device’s database to improve viewing response times.
3. Scanned images are reviewed by scanning personnel such as histotechnicians to confirm
image quality and initiate any re-scans before making it available to the pathologist.
4. The reading pathologist selects a patient case from a selected worklist within HALO AP Dx
whereby the subject device fetches the associated images from external image storage.
5. The reading pathologist uses the subject device to view the images and can perform the
following actions, as needed:
a. Zoom and pan the image.
b. Measure distances and areas in the image.
c. Annotate images.
d. View multiple images side by side in a synchronized fashion.
6. The above steps are repeated as necessary.
After viewing all images belonging to a particular case (patient), the pathologist will make a
diagnosis which is documented in another system, such as a Laboratory Information System
(LIS).
K232833 - Page 2 of 9

--- Page 3 ---
The interoperable components of HALO AP Dx and other system specifications are provided in
tables 1 – 4 below.
Table 1. Interoperable Components for Use with HALO AP Dx
Components Manufacturer Model
Scanner Hamamatsu NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner
Display JVC JD-C240BN01A
Table 2. Client System Requirements
Workstation Component Specifications
Processor Intel Core i7 CPU
Memory 16 GB or more
Network connectivity 100 Mbps (1 Gbps recommended) connection
Keyboard/ Mouse / Trackpad Standard Keyboard and Mouse Input Devices
Operating system Windows 10
Supported browsers Google Chrome version 116 and above
Microsoft Edge version 116 and above
Antivirus software The following anti-virus software has been validated for use:
- Microsoft Windows Defender
- Trend Micro
- Webroot
Table 3. Server System Requirements
Server Operating System Memory Processor
Component Server, Windows Server 2022 16 GB or more 8 cores or more
Processing Node Server, Only x64 (64 bit) operating
File Monitor Server systems are supported
NGINX Reverse Proxy Ubuntu 22.04 2 GB or more 2 cores or more
Only x64 (64 bit) operating
systems are supported
MySQL Server Windows Server 2022 or 16 GB or more 4 cores or more
Ubuntu 22.04
Only x64 (64 bit) operating
systems are supported
K232833 - Page 3 of 9

[Table 1 on page 3]
Components	Manufacturer	Model
Scanner	Hamamatsu	NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner
Display	JVC	JD-C240BN01A

[Table 2 on page 3]
					
	Workstation Component			Specifications	
					
Processor			Intel Core i7 CPU		
Memory			16 GB or more		
Network connectivity			100 Mbps (1 Gbps recommended) connection		
Keyboard/ Mouse / Trackpad			Standard Keyboard and Mouse Input Devices		
Operating system			Windows 10		
Supported browsers			Google Chrome version 116 and above
Microsoft Edge version 116 and above		
Antivirus software			The following anti-virus software has been validated for use:
- Microsoft Windows Defender
- Trend Micro
- Webroot		

[Table 3 on page 3]
							
Server	Operating System		Memory			Processor	
							
Component Server,
Processing Node Server,
File Monitor Server	Windows Server 2022
Only x64 (64 bit) operating
systems are supported	16 GB or more			8 cores or more		
NGINX Reverse Proxy	Ubuntu 22.04
Only x64 (64 bit) operating
systems are supported	2 GB or more			2 cores or more		
MySQL Server	Windows Server 2022 or
Ubuntu 22.04
Only x64 (64 bit) operating
systems are supported	16 GB or more			4 cores or more		

--- Page 4 ---
Table 4. Server Configurations
Component Specifications
Network connectivity 1 Gbps (10 Gbps recommended) LAN connection between services
Antivirus software The following anti-virus software has been validated for use with
Windows server:
- Microsoft Windows Defender
- Trend Micro
- Webroot
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
HALO AP Dx
2. Specimen Identification:
HALO AP Dx uses digital pathology images obtained from the Hamamatsu S360 MD
scanner of Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stained glass slides. The reading pathologist
selects a case (patient) from a worklist (within the device or external to the device) whereby
the subject device fetches the associated images from the external image storage. The
scanned images are identified based on the previously assigned specimen identifier such as
the laboratory specimen accession number.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling and handling are performed upstream and independent of the use of the
subject device. Specimen sampling includes biopsy or resection specimens which are
processed using histology techniques. The FFPE tissue section is Hematoxylin and Eosin
(H&E) stained. Digital images are then obtained from these glass slides using the
Hamamatsu S360 MD scanner.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable
5. Quality Control:
The scanning technician should perform quality control of all glass slides following the
instructions. Upon scanning, quality control should be performed on all digital slide images
following procedures defined by the scanner manufacturer prior to import into HALO AP
Dx.
The pathologist should review all images to ensure that all expected slides have been
imported by viewing the thumbnails and labels, and manually verifying the tissue specimen,
block, and staining information is present. Additional details of the quality control
procedures are provided in the device User’s Guide and the Implementation Guide.
K232833 - Page 4 of 9

[Table 1 on page 4]
					
	Component			Specifications	
					
Network connectivity			1 Gbps (10 Gbps recommended) LAN connection between services		
Antivirus software			The following anti-virus software has been validated for use with
Windows server:
- Microsoft Windows Defender
- Trend Micro
- Webroot		

--- Page 5 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner system
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K213883
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K232833 K213883
Device(s):
Hamamatsu NanoZoomer S360MD
Device Trade Name HALO AP Dx
Slide scanner system
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
The NanoZoomer S360MD Slide
HALO AP Dx is a software
scanner system (“NanoZoomer
only device intended as an aid
System”) is an automated digital
to the pathologist to review,
slide creation, viewing, and
interpret and manage digital
management system. The
images of scanned surgical
NanoZoomer System is intended
pathology slides prepared
for in vitro diagnostic use as an aid
from formalin-fixed paraffin
to the pathologist to review and
embedded (FFPE) tissue.
interpret digital images of surgical
HALO AP Dx is not intended
pathology slides prepared from
for use with frozen section,
formalin-fixed paraffin embedded
cytology, or non-FFPE
(“FFPE”) tissue. The NanoZoomer
hematopathology specimens.
System is not intended for use with
Intended frozen section, cytology, or non-
Use/Indications For It is the responsibility of a FFPE hematopathology specimens.
qualified pathologist to
Use
employ appropriate
The NanoZoomer System
procedures and safeguards to
comprises the NanoZoomer
assure the quality of the
S360MD Slide scanner, the
images obtained and, where
NZViewMD Software and the JVC
necessary, use conventional
Kenwood JD-C240BN01A display.
light microscopy review
The NanoZoomer System is for
when making a diagnostic
creation and viewing of digital
decision. HALO AP Dx is
images of scanned glass slides that
intended for use with the
would otherwise be appropriate for
Hamamatsu NanoZoomer
manual visualization by
S360MD Slide scanner and
conventional light microscopy. It is
the JVC Kenwood JD-
the responsibility of a qualified
C240BN01A display.
pathologist to employ appropriate
K232833 - Page 5 of 9

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		K232833	K213883
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			HALO AP Dx	Hamamatsu NanoZoomer S360MD
Slide scanner system
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Similarities			
Intended
Use/Indications For
Use			HALO AP Dx is a software
only device intended as an aid
to the pathologist to review,
interpret and manage digital
images of scanned surgical
pathology slides prepared
from formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue.
HALO AP Dx is not intended
for use with frozen section,
cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to
employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to
assure the quality of the
images obtained and, where
necessary, use conventional
light microscopy review
when making a diagnostic
decision. HALO AP Dx is
intended for use with the
Hamamatsu NanoZoomer
S360MD Slide scanner and
the JVC Kenwood JD-
C240BN01A display.	The NanoZoomer S360MD Slide
scanner system (“NanoZoomer
System”) is an automated digital
slide creation, viewing, and
management system. The
NanoZoomer System is intended
for in vitro diagnostic use as an aid
to the pathologist to review and
interpret digital images of surgical
pathology slides prepared from
formalin-fixed paraffin embedded
(“FFPE”) tissue. The NanoZoomer
System is not intended for use with
frozen section, cytology, or non-
FFPE hematopathology specimens.
The NanoZoomer System
comprises the NanoZoomer
S360MD Slide scanner, the
NZViewMD Software and the JVC
Kenwood JD-C240BN01A display.
The NanoZoomer System is for
creation and viewing of digital
images of scanned glass slides that
would otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by
conventional light microscopy. It is
the responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ appropriate

--- Page 6 ---
Device & Predicate
K232833 K213883
Device(s):
procedures and safeguards to assure
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using
NanoZoomer System.
Surgical pathology slides prepared
Specimen Type Same
from FFPE tissue
Diagnostic Image
Same Hamamatsu NDPI File
File Format
User-supplied network attached
Image Storage Same
storage
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
Functions for continuous
panning and zooming, Functions for continuous panning
annotations, image and zooming, annotations,
Image Manipulation adjustments, distance/area distance/area measurements, track
and Review measurements, organize visited areas, export images,
Functions workload and view patient discrete Z-axis displacement, and
data, export images, and display of diagnostic status of
display of diagnostic status of images.
images.
Type of Software Internet browser-based
PC-based installed application
Application application
End User’s Interface HALO AP Dx NZViewMD
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole
Slide Imaging Devices", April 20, 2016.
2. Guidance for Industry "Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices", February 3, 2016.
3. IEC 62304 Edition 1.1 2015-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION, 13-79. Medical device
software – Software life cycle processes.
4. ISO 14971 Third Edition 2019-12, 5-125, Medical devices – Applications of risk
management to medical devices.
5. IEC 62366-1 Edition 1.1 2020-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION, 5-129, Application of
usability engineering to medical devices.
6. AAMI TIR 45:2012, 13-36, Guidance on the use of AGILE practices in the development
of medical device software.
7. Standards Details / Supplemental Documentation per ISO/IEC 17050-2.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
K232833 - Page 6 of 9

[Table 1 on page 6]
	Device & Predicate		K232833	K213883
	Device(s):			
				procedures and safeguards to assure
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using
NanoZoomer System.
Specimen Type			Same	Surgical pathology slides prepared
from FFPE tissue
Diagnostic Image
File Format			Same	Hamamatsu NDPI File
Image Storage			Same	User-supplied network attached
storage
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Differences			
Image Manipulation
and Review
Functions			Functions for continuous
panning and zooming,
annotations, image
adjustments, distance/area
measurements, organize
workload and view patient
data, export images, and
display of diagnostic status of
images.	Functions for continuous panning
and zooming, annotations,
distance/area measurements, track
visited areas, export images,
discrete Z-axis displacement, and
display of diagnostic status of
images.
Type of Software
Application			Internet browser-based
application	PC-based installed application
End User’s Interface			HALO AP Dx	NZViewMD

--- Page 7 ---
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Technical performance testing was conducted with HALO AP Dx. The subject device was
compared to the predicate device’s image review manipulation software (IRMS, as defined in
FDA guidance document, “Guidance for Industry – Technical Performance Assessment of
Digital Pathology Whole Slide Imaging Devices,” dated April 20, 2016) using the quantitative
pixel-wise comparison method. The basis for the comparison was the CIEDE2000 color
difference equation, ΔE.
1. Bench Testing - Pixelwise comparison test
Pixel-wise comparison testing to demonstrate identical image reproduction was conducted to
compare WSIs reproduced by HALO AP Dx and Nanozoomer NZViewMD. The devices
were tested as operating with the intended components, including the scanner (Hamamatsu
NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner), image management system (Nanozoomer
NZViewMD, HALO AP Dx with Google Chrome, or HALO AP Dx with Microsoft Edge),
and display (JVC Kenwood JD-C240BN01A).
The device was tested with multiple slides across multiple regions of interest (ROI) at
multiple magnification levels. A total of 35 H&E-stained, FFPE glass slides of normal and
tumor tissues from various human anatomical organs were used in the testing. The glass
slides were scanned on a Hamamatsu NanoZoomer S360MD Slide scanner system to obtain
35 WSIs. For each of the 35 WSIs, 3 ROIs were selected by qualified personnel to represent
various features in the tissue samples. Each ROI was captured at 3 magnification levels (10x,
20x, 40x).
K232833 - Page 7 of 9

--- Page 8 ---
The screenshots were captured from the intended display and cropped to generate bitmap
images (.bmp) that were ready for pixelwise comparison. Three sets of images were
collected: (1) NZViewMD, (2) HALO AP Dx using Google Chrome, and (3) HALO AP Dx
using Microsoft Edge. Each image set included 315 images that covered all combinations of
35 slides, 3 ROIs, and 3 magnification levels. The testing data, including the overview
images of the 35 glass slides with annotations of the ROIs, registration/cropping information,
and captured images, were provided in the FDA specific format.
Image set #1 above was used as the reference to compare image set #2 (or #3) to determine
whether all the 315 image-pairs were identical. Two images are considered identical if the
95th percentile of the pixelwise differences, computed using the International Commission on
Illumination (CIE) color difference metric CIEDE2000 (ΔE ), is less than 3 ΔE . Testing
00 00
results showed that the pixelwise differences across all 630 image-pairs were less than 3
ΔE . The mean 95th percentile ΔE value was 1.52 with the lowest value reported as 0.82
00 00
and the highest reported as 2.75. Testing results demonstrated that WSIs reproduced by
HALO AP Dx are identical to images reproduced by the predicate device.
2. Turnaround Time
Turnaround times for image loading, panning and zooming were tested when using Google
Chrome and Microsoft Edge browsers over different magnifications levels and over multiple
fields of view (FOVs). Additionally, concurrent, multi-user load testing of the HALO AP Dx
Image Server was performed to show that the subject device is responsive under constant
utilization over a long period of time. Test results showed these to be adequate for the
intended use of the subject device.
3. Measurements – area and distance
Measurement accuracy testing was performed to demonstrate that HALO AP Dx represents
length and area measurements accurately across multiple magnification levels. An image of a
calibration slide with known object sizes was used to verify the measurement accuracy. A
total of 32 annotations were created – 4 annotations (2 horizontal and 2 vertical) at 4
magnification levels in 2 browsers. The intended and reported metrics were recorded for each
annotation. The differences between intended and reported measurements were calculated.
Test results showed that the subject device performed accurate measurements of length and
area across multiple magnification settings with respect to its intended use.
4. Human Factors (Usability) Testing
Usability testing was conducted per FDA’s Guidance on Applying Human Factors and
Usability Engineering to Medical Devices (2016). A summative human factors test, designed
around critical user tasks and use scenarios using multiple representative users (pathologists
and histotechnicians), was conducted. All tasks associated with reviewing and reporting
results for cases including confirmation that all slides belonging to specific cases are
reviewed before reporting results were included in the study. The HALO AP Dx device has
been found to be safe and effective for intended users, users and use environments.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
K232833 - Page 8 of 9

--- Page 9 ---
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K232833 - Page 9 of 9