
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K233352
B Applicant
Hologic, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Aptima HCV Quant Dx Assay
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3170 -
Nucleic Acid-Based
MZP Class II MI - Microbiology
Hepatitis C Virus
Ribonucleic Acid Tests
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Market clearance of Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay after modifications to the approved device
(P160023). Modifications include:
• Update the Panther System Software to version 7.2.9 to incorporate:
- An update to the Assay Definition Module (ADM) to version 5.3.5.1 to implement new
background minimum limits (Detect, flag and invalidate results impacted by a
flickering/faulty LED lamp);
- Additional reagent on-board/off-board cycling from 5 to 8 cycles. This will facilitate
operators loading reagents onto the Panther System 8 times instead of 5 times.
These changes do not introduce any changes to the original design, method of manufacture,
assay procedure, principle of operation, mechanism of action, conditions of use or hardware of
the Panther instrument, or to the results interpretation for the cleared assay.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
MZP			Class II	21 CFR 866.3170 -
Nucleic Acid-Based
Hepatitis C Virus
Ribonucleic Acid Tests			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
B Measurand:
HCV RNA
C Type of Test:
Nucleic acid amplification test that uses real-time TMA technology to detect and quantitate HCV
RNA
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is a real-time transcription-mediated amplification (TMA) test
used for both detection and quantitation of hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA in fresh and frozen
human serum and plasma from HCV-infected individuals.
Plasma may be prepared in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), anticoagulant citrate
dextrose (ACD) solution, and plasma preparation tubes (PPT). Serum may be prepared in serum
tubes and serum separator tubes (SST). Specimens are tested using the Panther system for
automated specimen processing, amplification, detection, and quantitation. Specimens containing
HCV genotypes 1 to 6 are validated for detection and quantitation in the assay.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is indicated for use as an aid in the diagnosis of active HCV
infection in the following populations: individuals with antibody evidence of HCV infection with
evidence of liver disease, individuals suspected to be actively infected with HCV antibody
evidence, and individuals at risk for HCV infection with antibodies to HCV. Detection of HCV
RNA indicates that the virus is replicating and, therefore, is evidence of active infection.
Detection of HCV RNA does not discriminate between acute and chronic states of infection.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is also indicated for use as an aid in the management of HCV
infected patients undergoing HCV antiviral drug therapy. The assay can be used to measure
HCV RNA levels periodically prior to, during, and after treatment to determine sustained
virological response (SVR) or nonsustained virological response (NSVR). Assay performance
characteristics have been established for individuals infected with HCV and treated with certain
direct-acting antiviral agents (DAA) regimens. No information is available on the assay’s
predictive value when other therapies are used. The results from the Aptima HCV Quant Dx
assay must be interpreted within the context of all relevant clinical and laboratory findings.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is not approved for use as a screening test for the presence of
HCV RNA in blood or blood products.
B Indication(s) for Use:
See Intended Use above
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
K233352 - Page 2 of 11

--- Page 3 ---
D Special Instrument Requirements:
For use with Panther System
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay has been designed for and validated on the Panther system.
The Panther system is an integrated hardware and software system that together with the Aptima
HCV Quant Dx assay fully automates all the steps necessary to perform the assay from sample
preparation through amplification of nucleic acid, detection, data reduction and amplicon
inactivation.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is a nucleic acid amplification test that uses real-time TMA
technology to detect and quantitate HCV RNA for aiding diagnosis or to establish baseline viral
load, as well as to measure on-treatment and post-treatment responses. The assay targets a
conserved region of the HCV genome, detecting and quantitating genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
The assay is standardized against the 2nd WHO International Standard for Hepatitis C Virus
(NIBSC Code 96/798).12.
B Principle of Operation:
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx Assay involves three main steps, which all take place in a single
tube on the Panther system: target capture, target amplification by transcription-mediated
amplification (TMA), and detection of the amplification products (amplicon) by the fluorescent
labeled probes (torches).
During target capture, viral RNA is isolated from specimens. The specimen is treated with a
detergent to solubilize the viral envelope, denature proteins, and release viral genomic RNA.
Capture oligonucleotides hybridize to highly conserved regions of the HCV genome, if present,
in the test specimen. The hybridized target is then captured onto magnetic microparticles that are
separated from the specimen in a magnetic field. Wash steps remove extraneous components
from the reaction tube.
Target amplification occurs via TMA, which is a transcription-based nucleic acid amplification
method that utilizes two enzymes, MMLV (Moloney murine leukemia virus) reverse
transcriptase and T7 RNA polymerase. The reverse transcriptase is used to generate a DNA copy
(containing a promoter sequence for T7 RNA polymerase) of the target sequence. T7 RNA
polymerase produces multiple copies of RNA amplicons from the DNA copy template. The
Aptima HCV Quant Dx Assay utilizes the TMA method to amplify the 5’ UTR of the HCV
genome. Amplification of this region is achieved using specific primers which are designed to
amplify HCV genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
Detection is achieved using single-stranded nucleic acid torches that are present during the
amplification of the target and that hybridize specifically to the amplicon in real-time. Each torch
K233352 - Page 3 of 11

--- Page 4 ---
has a fluorophore and a quencher. When the torch is not hybridized to the amplicon, the
quencher is in close proximity of the fluorophore and suppresses the fluorescence. When the
torch binds to the amplicon, the quencher is moved away from the fluorophore and it will emit a
signal at a specific wavelength when excited by a light source. As more torches hybridize to
amplicons, a higher fluorescent signal is generated.
The time taken for the fluorescent signal to reach a specified threshold is inversely proportional
to the starting HCV concentration. Each reaction has an internal calibrator/internal control (IC)
that controls for variations in specimen processing, amplification, and detection. The level of
HCV RNA in a sample is determined by the Panther system software using the HCV and IC
signals for each reaction and comparing them to calibration information.
Assay Components
The reagents required to perform the Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay are available in 100-test kits.
The kits are packaged in 3 boxes containing 11 reagents which are required for sample
processing.
Box 1: Aptima HCV Quant Dx Assay kit which contains the following reagents:
 Amplification Reagent
 Enzyme Reagent
 Promoter Reagent
 Amplification Reconstitution Reagent
 Enzyme Reconstitution Reagent
 Promoter Reconstitution Reagent
 Target Capture Reagent
Box 2: Aptima HCV Quant Dx Calibrator kit which contains the following reagent:
 Positive Calibrator
Box 3: Aptima HCV Quant Dx Controls kit which contains the following reagents:
 Negative Control
 Low Positive Control
 High Positive Control

In addition, two ancillary kits are required to run the assay:
- Panther Run Kit for Real Time Assays (for real time assays only)
- Panther System Run Kit (when running non-real time-TMA assays in parallel with real time-
TMA assays)
Interpretation of Results
The Panther system automatically determines the concentration of HCV RNA for specimens and
controls by comparing the results to a calibration curve. HCV RNA concentrations are reported
in IU/mL and log10 IU/mL. The interpretation of results is provided in the table below. If a 1:3
or 1:100 dilution is used for diluted specimens, the Panther system automatically calculates the
HCV concentration for the neat specimen by multiplying the diluted concentration by the
dilution factor and diluted specimens are flagged as diluted. Note: For diluted specimens, results
listed as “Not Detected” or “< 10 Detected” may be generated by diluting a specimen with a
concentration above, but close to the LoD (limit of detection) or LLoQ (lower limit of
quantitation. It is recommended to collect and test another neat specimen if a quantitative result
is not obtained with the diluted specimen.
K233352 - Page 4 of 11

--- Page 5 ---
The Panther system does not directly provide a qualitative result (i.e., “Detected” or “Not
Detected”) for diagnostic use. The operator must interpret the reported HCV RNA concentration
into a qualitative result as provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay Results Interpretation
Reported Aptima HCV
Quant Dx Result HCV RNA Concentration
Clinical Interpretation
Log10 Interpretation
IU/mL
Valueb
No Current HCV Infection.
HCV RNA not detecteda. Follow-up testing is recommended as per
Not
Not Detected national HCV guidelines for viral load
Detected
Report results as “HCV not detected” assessment, and no further testing is
recommended for diagnosis of HCVd.
HCV RNA detected but not quantified.
HCV RNA concentration is below the Follow-up testing is recommended as per
Lower Limit of Quantification (LLoQ) national HCV guidelines for viral load
<10 Detected <1.00 of the assay. assessment, and results must be interpreted
within context of all relevant clinical and
Report results as “HCV detected, less laboratory findingsd for diagnosis of HCV.
than 10 IU/mL”
HCV RNA detected and quantified. Provide guidance for treatment and care based
HCV RNA concentration is within on current national HCV treatment guidelines
10 to 25 1.00 to 1.40
linear range of the assay ≥ 10 IU/mL for
and < 25 IU/mL. diagnosis of HCV and viral load assessment.
HCV RNA detected and quantified. Current HCV Infection.
25 to HCV RNA concentration is within the Provide guidance for treatment and care based
1.40 to 8.00
100,000,000 linear range of 25 to on current national HCV treatment guidelines
100,000,000IU/mL for diagnosis and viral load assessment of HCV.
Current HCV Infection.
HCV RNA is detected above the
For HCV Diagnosis and Viral Load Assessmente
>100,000,000 >8.00 Upper Limit of Quantification
Provide guidance for treatment and care based
(ULoQ).
on current national HCV treatment guidelines.
Error indicated in generation of the
Invalidc Invalidc N/A
result. Specimens should be retested.
a A diagnostic interpretation should not be made from a "Not Detected" result for serum or plasma specimens that
have been diluted. Obtain a new, undiluted specimen and retest.
b Value is truncated two decimal places
c Invalid results are displayed in blue-colored font.
d As per CDC HCV treatment guidelines, repeat HCV RNA testing is recommended after three months for patients
exposed to HCV infection within 6 months or patients with clinical evidence of HCV infection.
e Serum and Plasma specimens intended for viral load assessment with value above the ULoQ may be diluted and
retested to determine a quantitative result within the linear range.
C Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Panther System
K233352 - Page 5 of 11

[Table 1 on page 5]
Reported Aptima HCV
Quant Dx Result		HCV RNA Concentration
Interpretation	Clinical Interpretation
IU/mL	Log10
Valueb		
Not Detected	Not
Detected	HCV RNA not detecteda.
Report results as “HCV not detected”	No Current HCV Infection.
Follow-up testing is recommended as per
national HCV guidelines for viral load
assessment, and no further testing is
recommended for diagnosis of HCVd.
<10 Detected	<1.00	HCV RNA detected but not quantified.
HCV RNA concentration is below the
Lower Limit of Quantification (LLoQ)
of the assay.
Report results as “HCV detected, less
than 10 IU/mL”	Follow-up testing is recommended as per
national HCV guidelines for viral load
assessment, and results must be interpreted
within context of all relevant clinical and
laboratory findingsd for diagnosis of HCV.
10 to 25	1.00 to 1.40	HCV RNA detected and quantified.
HCV RNA concentration is within
linear range of the assay ≥ 10 IU/mL
and < 25 IU/mL.	Provide guidance for treatment and care based
on current national HCV treatment guidelines
for
diagnosis of HCV and viral load assessment.
25 to
100,000,000	1.40 to 8.00	HCV RNA detected and quantified.
HCV RNA concentration is within the
linear range of 25 to
100,000,000IU/mL	Current HCV Infection.
Provide guidance for treatment and care based
on current national HCV treatment guidelines
for diagnosis and viral load assessment of HCV.
>100,000,000	>8.00	HCV RNA is detected above the
Upper Limit of Quantification
(ULoQ).	Current HCV Infection.
For HCV Diagnosis and Viral Load Assessmente
Provide guidance for treatment and care based
on current national HCV treatment guidelines.
Invalidc	Invalidc	Error indicated in generation of the
result. Specimens should be retested.	N/A

--- Page 6 ---
2. Specimen Identification:
A barcode reader reads the barcodes assigned to the specimen.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Fresh and frozen human serum and plasma from HCV-infected individuals. Plasma may be
prepared in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), anticoagulant citrate dextrose (ACD)
solution, and plasma preparation tubes (PPT). Serum may be prepared in serum tubes and
serum separator tubes (SST).
4. Calibration:
To generate valid results, an assay calibration must be completed. A single positive calibrator
is run in triplicate each time a reagent kit is loaded on the Panther system. Once established,
the calibration is valid for up to 24 hours. Software on the Panther system alerts the operator
when a calibration is required. The operator scans a calibration coefficient found on the
Master Lot Barcode Sheet provided with each reagent kit.
During processing, criteria for acceptance of the calibrator are automatically verified by the
software on the Panther system. If less than two of the calibrator replicates are valid, the
software automatically invalidates the run. Samples in an invalidated run must be retested
using a freshly prepared calibrator and freshly prepared controls.
The Panther system automatically determines the concentration of HCV RNA for specimens
and controls by comparing the results to a calibration curve. HCV RNA concentrations are
reported in IU/mL and log10 IU/mL.
5. Quality Control:
Negative and Positive Controls:
To generate valid results, a set of assay controls must be tested. One replicate of the negative
control, the low positive control, and the high positive control must be tested each time a
reagent kit is loaded on the Panther system. Once established, the controls are valid for up to
24 hours. Software on the Panther system alerts the operator when controls are required.
During processing, criteria for acceptance of controls are automatically verified by software
on the Panther system. To generate valid results, the negative control must give a result of
“Not Detected” and the positive controls must give results within predefined parameters
(LPC Nominal Target: 2.36 Log10 IU/mL, HPC Nominal Target: 5.36 Log10 IU/mL). If any
one of the controls has an invalid result, the software automatically invalidates the run.
Samples in an invalidated run must be retested using a freshly prepared calibrator and freshly
prepared controls.
Internal Calibrator/Internal Control:
Each sample contains an internal calibrator/internal control (IC). During processing, IC
acceptance criteria are automatically verified by the Panther system software. If an IC result
is invalid, the sample result is invalidated. Every sample with an invalid IC result must be
retested to obtain a valid result.
K233352 - Page 6 of 11

--- Page 7 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
P160023
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate K233352 P160023
Device(s):
Device Trade
Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay
Name
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
a real-time transcription-mediated
amplification (TMA) test used for
both detection and quantitation of
hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA in
fresh and frozen human serum and
plasma from HCV-infected
individuals.
Plasma may be prepared in
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
(EDTA), anticoagulant citrate
dextrose (ACD) solution, and plasma
preparation tubes (PPT). Serum may
be prepared in serum tubes and
Intended Use Same serum separator tubes (SST).
Specimens are tested using the
Panther system for automated
specimen processing, amplification,
detection, and quantitation.
Specimens containing HCV
genotypes 1 to 6 are validated for
detection and quantitation in the
assay.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
indicated for use as an aid in the
diagnosis of active HCV infection in
the following populations:
individuals with antibody evidence of
HCV infection with evidence of liver
K233352 - Page 7 of 11

[Table 1 on page 7]
	Device &		K233352	P160023
	Predicate			
	Device(s):			
Device Trade
Name			Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay	Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Similarities			
Intended Use			Same	The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
a real-time transcription-mediated
amplification (TMA) test used for
both detection and quantitation of
hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA in
fresh and frozen human serum and
plasma from HCV-infected
individuals.
Plasma may be prepared in
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
(EDTA), anticoagulant citrate
dextrose (ACD) solution, and plasma
preparation tubes (PPT). Serum may
be prepared in serum tubes and
serum separator tubes (SST).
Specimens are tested using the
Panther system for automated
specimen processing, amplification,
detection, and quantitation.
Specimens containing HCV
genotypes 1 to 6 are validated for
detection and quantitation in the
assay.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
indicated for use as an aid in the
diagnosis of active HCV infection in
the following populations:
individuals with antibody evidence of
HCV infection with evidence of liver

--- Page 8 ---
disease, individuals suspected to be
actively infected with HCV antibody
evidence, and individuals at risk for
HCV infection with antibodies to
HCV. Detection of HCV RNA
indicates that the virus is replicating
and, therefore, is evidence of active
infection. Detection of HCV RNA
does not discriminate between acute
and chronic states of infection.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
also indicated for use as an aid in the
management of HCV infected
patients undergoing HCV antiviral
drug therapy. The assay can be used
to measure HCV RNA levels
periodically prior to, during, and
after treatment to determine sustained
virological response (SVR) or
nonsustained virological response
(NSVR). Assay performance
characteristics have been established
for individuals infected with HCV
and treated with certain direct-acting
antiviral agents (DAA) regimens. No
information is available on the
assay’s predictive value when other
therapies are used. The results from
the Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay
must be interpreted within the
context of all relevant clinical and
laboratory findings.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
not approved for use as a screening
test for the presence of HCV RNA in
blood or blood products.
Technology Same
Target Capture (TC), Transcription-
Principle of
Mediated Amplification (TMA)
Operation
Platform Same Automated Panther System
Assay Targets Same Hepatitis C RNA
Assay Results Same Qualitative & quantitative
Function Same Detection of RNA from Hepatitis C
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
K233352 - Page 8 of 11

[Table 1 on page 8]
				disease, individuals suspected to be
actively infected with HCV antibody
evidence, and individuals at risk for
HCV infection with antibodies to
HCV. Detection of HCV RNA
indicates that the virus is replicating
and, therefore, is evidence of active
infection. Detection of HCV RNA
does not discriminate between acute
and chronic states of infection.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
also indicated for use as an aid in the
management of HCV infected
patients undergoing HCV antiviral
drug therapy. The assay can be used
to measure HCV RNA levels
periodically prior to, during, and
after treatment to determine sustained
virological response (SVR) or
nonsustained virological response
(NSVR). Assay performance
characteristics have been established
for individuals infected with HCV
and treated with certain direct-acting
antiviral agents (DAA) regimens. No
information is available on the
assay’s predictive value when other
therapies are used. The results from
the Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay
must be interpreted within the
context of all relevant clinical and
laboratory findings.
The Aptima HCV Quant Dx assay is
not approved for use as a screening
test for the presence of HCV RNA in
blood or blood products.
Technology
Principle of
Operation			Same	Target Capture (TC), Transcription-
Mediated Amplification (TMA)
Platform			Same	Automated Panther System
Assay Targets			Same	Hepatitis C RNA
Assay Results			Same	Qualitative & quantitative
Function			Same	Detection of RNA from Hepatitis C
	General Device			
	Characteristic			
	Differences			

--- Page 9 ---
Reagents can be
loaded onto the 8 times 5 times
Panther system
Results impacted
by faulty or Read as normal, potentially
Marked as invalid results
flickering LED in producing incorrect results
Panther instrument
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
No standards, special controls or guidance documents were referenced.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
NOTE: Performance Characteristics of the Aptima HCV Quant Assay other than the
analytical studies described below have been described and established in P160023.
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023
2. Linearity:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Not applicable.
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Estimated Background Process Control Limit Evaluation
The purpose of this study was to establish background process control limits necessary to detect
faults such as flickering LED lamps or high background caused by contamination. LIS and
fluorescent curve data were obtained from a customer field database. Curve files were processed
to generate results processing output; estimated background data from the results processing
output was matched with each test order in the LIS files. HCV Estimated Background
distributions were analyzed by each channel. The estimated background limits did not increase
the number of invalidated results.
K233352 - Page 9 of 11

[Table 1 on page 9]
Reagents can be
loaded onto the
Panther system	8 times	5 times
Results impacted
by faulty or
flickering LED in
Panther instrument	Marked as invalid results	Read as normal, potentially
producing incorrect results

--- Page 10 ---
Background Limits System Validation
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that the Panther System can perform the assay per
predefined acceptance criteria and that the assay performance with the revised software version
is equivalent to the performance demonstrated with previous software versions. Performance was
evaluated using HCV negative plasma and clinical virus spiked into plasma at 3x LLOQ
(~30IU/mL). The results show that all 10 replicates for the negative sample were negative and all
10 replicates for the low positive sample were positive.
On-Board Stability (OBS) and reagent Cycling:
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the Aptima HCV Quant Assay for an increase in the
number of reagent on-board/ off-board cycling to allow operators to load reagents onto the
Panther System 8 times instead of 5 times. Performance was evaluated using negative clinical
matrix and virus spiked into clinical plasma at the following concentrations: 30 IU/mL (3x
LLoQ), 2E3 IU/mL, and 1E7 IU/mL. The results support on-board/off-board cycling claim of 8
times.
Software Verification and Validation
Software validation testing of the functionality and feature set incorporated in the Panther and
Panther Fusion System Software and associated assays was performed to ensure the software
conforms to user needs and intended uses, and that the requirements implemented through
software are consistently fulfilled. All verification testing passed meeting all the requirements.
6. Detection Limit:
Not applicable
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023
8. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
9. Carry-Over:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023.
K233352 - Page 10 of 11

--- Page 11 ---
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Not applicable
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Refer to the original PMA submission P160023.
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Not applicable.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling is sufficient and satisfies the requirements of 21 CFR Part 809.10.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K233352 - Page 11 of 11