
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K233126
B Applicant
Due to an administrative error, the applicant’s name was previously stated as “AetherAI Co.,
Ltd” and is now corrected.
aetherAI Co., Ltd.
C Proprietary and Established Names
aetherSlide
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
QKQ Class II PA - Pathology
Slide Imaging System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device
B Type of Test:
Software only device
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QKQ			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
Slide Imaging System			PA - Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
B Indication(s) for Use:
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
aetherSlide is a software-only device intended for viewing and managing digital images of
scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE)
tissue. It is an aid to the pathologist to review, interpret, and manage digital images of pathology
slides for primary diagnosis. aetherSlide is not intended for use with frozen section, cytology, or
non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and safeguards
to assure the quality of the images obtained and, where necessary, use conventional light
microscopy review when making a diagnostic decision. aetherSlide is intended for use with the
Philips Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and the Philips PS27QHDCR monitor.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
aetherSlide, version 101692 is a web-based, software only device that is intended to aid
pathology professionals in viewing, interpretation and management of digital whole slide images
(WSI) of scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) tissue obtained from Philips Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS). It aids the pathologist in the
review, interpretation, and management of pathology slide digital images used to generate a
primary diagnosis.
aetherSlide is operated as follows:
1. Image acquisition is performed using the Philips UFS. The operator conducts quality control
of the digital slides according to Philips UFS instructions and laboratory specifications to
determine if re-scans are necessary.
2. Once the WSI is acquired using Philips UFS, it becomes available in the Philips IntelliSite
Pathology Solution (PIPS) database file systems. The operator then exports the WSI in
iSyntax format from PIPS Image Management System (IMS) to a designated storage path.
3. The operator can manually upload the exported WSI into aetherSlide via aetherSlide
Gateway, which is a separate medical image communications software. Alternatively, the
aetherSlide Gateway can automatically initiate the upload of the WSI into aetherSlide when
the auto-upload function is activated on the settings page of aetherSlide Gateway. Once the
WSI is uploaded, the reading pathologist uses the device to perform the following actions:
 View slide image
 Zoom and pan the image
 Measure distances in the image
 Annotate the image
K233126 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
4. After viewing all images for a patient case, the pathologist will make a diagnosis. The
diagnosis will be documented in another system, e.g., a Laboratory Information System
(LIS).
aetherSlide is designed to be deployed to a customer-managed infrastructure and may be
accessed on the user's workstation browser. aetherSlide operates with and is validated for use
with the components specified the tables below:
Table 1. Interoperable Components for Use with aetherSlide
Components Manufacturer Model
Scanner Philips Medical Systems Ultra Fast Scanner
Nederland B.V.
Display Philips Medical Systems PS27QHDCR
Nederland B.V. Monitor
Table 2. Computer Environment/System Requirements
Environment Component Minimum Requirements
Client PC
Hardware Processor Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 2 cores
Memory 4 GB RAM or higher
Storage 128 GB SSD or higher
Network 100 Mbps Ethernet or above
Software Operating System Microsoft Windows 11
Browser Google Chrome (122 or higher)
Gateway Workstation
Hardware Processor Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 2 cores
Memory 4 GB RAM or higher
Storage 128 GB SSD or higher
Network 100 Mbps Ethernet or above
Software Operating System Microsoft Windows 11
Server
Hardware Processor Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 8 cores
Memory 16 GB RAM or higher
Storage 512 GB SSD or higher
Network 1 Gbps or above
Software Operating System Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
aetherSlide
2. Specimen Identification:
K233126 - Page 3 of 8

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Components			Manufacturer			Model	
Scanner			Philips Medical Systems
Nederland B.V.			Ultra Fast Scanner		
Display			Philips Medical Systems
Nederland B.V.			PS27QHDCR
Monitor		

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Environment			Component			Minimum Requirements	
Client PC								
Hardware			Processor			Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 2 cores		
			Memory			4 GB RAM or higher		
			Storage			128 GB SSD or higher		
			Network			100 Mbps Ethernet or above		
Software			Operating System			Microsoft Windows 11		
			Browser			Google Chrome (122 or higher)		
Gateway Workstation								
Hardware			Processor			Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 2 cores		
			Memory			4 GB RAM or higher		
			Storage			128 GB SSD or higher		
			Network			100 Mbps Ethernet or above		
Software			Operating System			Microsoft Windows 11		
Server								
Hardware			Processor			Intel or AMD with 64-bit support, at least
2 GHz, at least 8 cores		
			Memory			16 GB RAM or higher		
			Storage			512 GB SSD or higher		
			Network			1 Gbps or above		
Software			Operating System			Ubuntu 22.04 LTS		

--- Page 4 ---
aetherSlide uses digital images of scanned surgical pathology slides of human samples
prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. The reading pathologist
selects a case (patient) from a worklist whereby the subject device fetches the associated
images from the image storage. The scanned images are identified based on the previously
assigned specimen identifier.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling and handling are performed upstream and independent of the use of the
subject device. Specimen sampling includes biopsy or resection specimens which are
processed using histology techniques. The FFPE tissue section is H&E stained. Digital
images are then obtained from these glass slides using the PIPS Ultra Fast Scanner.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable
5. Quality Control:
Prior to using a whole slide image for diagnosis, the operator shall conduct quality control of
the digital slides according to Philips UFS instructions and any additional laboratory
specifications. This process ensures the acceptability of image quality for all scanned slide
images and determines if re-scans are necessary.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
DEN160056
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate K233126 DEN160056
Device(s):
Device Trade aetherSlide Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
Name (PIPS)
General Device Characteristic Similarities
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated
aetherSlide is a software-only digital slide creation, viewing, and
Intended device intended for viewing and management system. The PIPS is
Use/Indications managing digital images of intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
For Use scanned surgical pathology slides an aid to the pathologist to review
prepared from formalin-fixed and interpret digital images of
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue. surgical pathology slides prepared
It is an aid to the pathologist to
K233126 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device &		K233126	DEN160056	
	Predicate				
	Device(s):				
Device Trade
Name			aetherSlide	Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
(PIPS)	
	General Device Characteristic Similarities				
Intended
Use/Indications
For Use			For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
aetherSlide is a software-only
device intended for viewing and
managing digital images of
scanned surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue.
It is an aid to the pathologist to	The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated
digital slide creation, viewing, and
management system. The PIPS is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as
an aid to the pathologist to review
and interpret digital images of
surgical pathology slides prepared	

--- Page 5 ---
review, interpret, and manage from formalin-fixed paraffin
digital images of pathology slides embedded (FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is
for primary diagnosis. aetherSlide not intended for use with frozen
is not intended for use with frozen section, cytology, or non FFPE
section, cytology, or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
It is the responsibility of a
Management System (IMS), the
qualified pathologist to employ
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
appropriate procedures and
Display. The PIPS is for creation and
safeguards to assure the quality of
viewing of digital images of scanned
the images obtained and, where
glass slides that would otherwise be
necessary, use conventional light
appropriate for manual visualization
microscopy review when making a
by conventional light microscopy. It
diagnostic decision. aetherSlide is
is the responsibility of a qualified
intended for use with the Philips
pathologist to employ appropriate
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and the
procedures and safeguards to assure
Philips PS27QHDCR monitor.
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using PIPS.
Digitized surgical pathology Same
Specimen Type slides prepared from FFPE tissue
Diagnostic iSyntax Same
Image File
Format
Type of Internet browser-based application Same
Software
Application
Principle of After WSI images are successfully After WSI images are successfully
Operation acquired by using PIPS UFS, the acquired by using PIPS UFS, the
WSI images are stored in the WSI images are stored in IMS
image storage provided by the end Application Server & Storage
user. During review, the software that is not provided as part
pathologist opens WSI images of the PIPS, but may be located in a
from storage, performs further QC central server room separate from the
and reads WSI images of the workstation with the IMS viewing
slides to make a diagnosis. software and Display. During review,
the pathologist opens WSI images
from IMS Server & Storage, perform
further QC and reads WSI images of
the slides to make a diagnosis.
Image Storage Images are stored in an end user Images are stored in the end user
provided image storage attached to provided image storage (PIPS IMS
the local network. Application Server & Storage)
attached to the local network.
Image Panning, zooming, color Panning, zooming, color
Manipulation manipulation function, manipulation function, annotations,
K233126 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
	review, interpret, and manage
digital images of pathology slides
for primary diagnosis. aetherSlide
is not intended for use with frozen
section, cytology, or non-FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a
qualified pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the quality of
the images obtained and, where
necessary, use conventional light
microscopy review when making a
diagnostic decision. aetherSlide is
intended for use with the Philips
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and the
Philips PS27QHDCR monitor.	from formalin-fixed paraffin
embedded (FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is
not intended for use with frozen
section, cytology, or non FFPE
hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS), the
Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS) and
Display. The PIPS is for creation and
viewing of digital images of scanned
glass slides that would otherwise be
appropriate for manual visualization
by conventional light microscopy. It
is the responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to assure
the validity of the interpretation of
images obtained using PIPS.
Specimen Type	Digitized surgical pathology
slides prepared from FFPE tissue	Same
Diagnostic
Image File
Format	iSyntax	Same
Type of
Software
Application	Internet browser-based application	Same
Principle of
Operation	After WSI images are successfully
acquired by using PIPS UFS, the
WSI images are stored in the
image storage provided by the end
user. During review, the
pathologist opens WSI images
from storage, performs further QC
and reads WSI images of the
slides to make a diagnosis.	After WSI images are successfully
acquired by using PIPS UFS, the
WSI images are stored in IMS
Application Server & Storage
software that is not provided as part
of the PIPS, but may be located in a
central server room separate from the
workstation with the IMS viewing
software and Display. During review,
the pathologist opens WSI images
from IMS Server & Storage, perform
further QC and reads WSI images of
the slides to make a diagnosis.
Image Storage	Images are stored in an end user
provided image storage attached to
the local network.	Images are stored in the end user
provided image storage (PIPS IMS
Application Server & Storage)
attached to the local network.
Image
Manipulation	Panning, zooming, color
manipulation function,	Panning, zooming, color
manipulation function, annotations,

--- Page 6 ---
and Review annotations, and measurements and measurements
Functions (only for distance) (distance & area)
General Device Characteristic Differences
Device aetherSlide imaging viewing Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Components software, aetherSlide Gateway Management System (IMS), Display
End User’s aetherSlide PIPS IMS
Interface
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. FDA Guidance for Industry “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole
Slide Imaging Devices", April 20, 2016.
2. FDA Guidance for the Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices (2016)
3. FDA Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions
(2023)
4. ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices
5. ISO/TR 24971:2020, Medical devices — Guidance on the application of ISO 14971
6. ISO 13485:2016, Medical devices — Quality management systems — Requirements for
regulatory purposes
7. IEC 62304:2006/Amd:2015, medical device software — Software life cycle processes —
Amendment 1
8. FDA Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices (2014)
9. ISO 14971:2019, Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices
10. NIST Special Publication 800-115, Technical Guide to Information Security Testing and
Assessment
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable
K233126 - Page 6 of 8

[Table 1 on page 6]
and Review
Functions		annotations, and measurements
(only for distance)	and measurements
(distance & area)	
	General Device Characteristic Differences			
Device
Components		aetherSlide imaging viewing
software, aetherSlide Gateway	Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Management System (IMS), Display	
End User’s
Interface		aetherSlide	PIPS IMS	

--- Page 7 ---
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Technical performance testing was conducted with aetherSlide. The subject device was
compared to the predicate device’s image review manipulation software (IRMS, as defined in
FDA guidance document, “Guidance for Industry – Technical Performance Assessment of
Digital Pathology Whole Slide Imaging Devices,” dated April 20, 2016) using the quantitative
pixel-wise comparison method. The basis for the comparison was the CIEDE2000 color
difference equation, ΔE.
1. Bench Testing - Pixelwise comparison test
Pixel-wise comparison testing to demonstrate identical image reproduction was conducted to
compare WSIs reproduced by the subject device and PIPS IMS. The devices were tested as
operating with the intended components, including the scanner (PIPS UFS), image
management system (PIPS IMS, aetherSlide with Google Chrome,) and display
(PS27QHDCR).
The device was tested with multiple slides across multiple regions of interest (ROI) at
multiple magnification levels. A total of 30 H&E-stained, FFPE glass slides of normal and
tumor tissues from various human anatomical organs were used in the testing. The glass
slides were scanned on a PIPS UFS to obtain 30 WSIs. For each of the 30 WSIs, 3 ROIs
from different locations were selected by qualified personnel to represent various features in
the tissue samples. Each ROI was captured at 4 magnification levels (5x, 10x, 20x, 40x).
The screenshots were captured from the intended display while viewing with the subject
device and predicate PIPS IMS. The screenshots were cropped and registered to be pixelwise
comparable. The cropped image included most of the pixels in the image except for those in
the viewer-specific user interface areas.
Two sets of images were collected: PIPS IMS and aetherSlide using Google Chrome. Each
image set included 360 images that covered all combinations of 30 slides, 3 ROIs and 4
magnification levels. The testing data, including the overview images of the 30 glass slides
with annotations of the ROIs, registration/cropping information, and captured images, were
provided in the FDA specific format.
The PIPS image set was used as the reference to compare the aetherSlide image set to
determine whether all the 360 image-pairs were identical. Two images are considered
identical if the 95th percentile of the pixelwise differences, computed using the International
Commission on Illumination (CIE) color difference metric CIEDE2000 (ΔE00), is less than 3
ΔE00. Testing results showed that the pixelwise differences across all 360 image-pairs were
less than 3 ΔE00. The mean 95th percentile ΔE00 value was 0.16 with the lowest value
reported as 0.00 and the highest reported as 0.71. Testing results demonstrated that WSIs
reproduced by aetherSlide are identical to images reproduced by the predicate device.
2. Turnaround Time
The turnaround time for opening an image and panning were measured in the subject device
when using Google Chrome over different magnifications levels and over multiple fields of
view (FOVs). The test results show that:
K233126 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
• When selecting a case, the average duration time until the image was fully loaded was
4.31 seconds.
• When panning the images (one quarter of the monitor), the average panning time was
1.05 seconds, 0.85 seconds, 0.99 seconds and 0.78 seconds at magnification levels of 4x,
10x, 20x, and 40x respectively.
The subject device has been found to have an acceptable turnaround time with respect to its
intended use for opening and panning the image.
3. Measurements
Measurement accuracy testing was performed using the scanned image of a grid micrometer.
The scanned image of a grid micrometer (R1L3S3P, Positive Grid Distortion Target,
ThorLabs) was used as the test target to verify the length measurement accuracy of the
subject device. The 100 µm grid with horizontal and vertical spacing of 0.1 mm was used in
the testing. The task of the human tester was to use the subject device’s measurement tool to
measure 0.1 mm (1 cell) and 0.2 mm (2 cells), both horizontally and vertically, at 5x, 10x,
20x, and 40x magnifications. Each measurement was conducted three times and the average
was reported. Results showed that all measurement values obtained by the human tester using
the measurement tool were also 0.1 mm or 0.2 mm for each of the specified measurements
above. Test results demonstrated that the subject device performed accurate measurements
with respect to its intended use.
4. Human Factor (Usability) testing
The aetherSlide device Human Factors (HF) validation test was conducted to demonstrate
that the device can be used by the intended users without serious use errors or problems, for
the intended uses and under the expected use conditions. The HF validation test was
performed by representative users and conducted per FDA’s Guidance on Applying Human
Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices (2016). A systematic evaluation of
task-based usability including critical tasks required for operation of the device were
evaluated at multiple sites using multiple users. All tasks associated with reviewing and
reporting results for cases including confirmation that all slides belonging to specific cases
are reviewed before reporting results, were included in the HF validation test. Overall, the
results of the human factors testing were acceptable. The aetherSlide device has been found
to be safe and effective for intended users, users and use environments.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports or the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K233126 - Page 8 of 8