
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K233861
B Applicant
Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous
Glucose Monitor For CH - Clinical
SBH Class II
Non-Intensive Chemistry
Glucose Management,
Over-The-Counter
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New Device
B Measurand:
Blood glucose from interstitial fluid.
C Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase).
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
SBH			Class II	21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous
Glucose Monitor For
Non-Intensive
Glucose Management,
Over-The-Counter			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
The Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System is an over-the-counter (OTC) integrated
continuous glucose monitoring (iCGM) device indicated for non-insulin using persons age 18
and older.
The System detects trends and tracks patterns and aids in the detection of euglycemia,
hyperglycemia, and hypoglycemia. The System is also intended to autonomously communicate
with digitally connected devices.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
OTC - Over The Counter
Contraindication
Diathermy: Remove all parts of your Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System before
high-frequency electrical heat (diathermy) treatment. The effect of diathermy on the System
hasn’t been tested. The exposure may damage the Sensor, which could impact proper device
function and cause inaccurate readings.
Do not use the Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System if you are on dialysis or
critically ill. It is not known how different conditions or medications common to these
populations may affect performance of the System.
Only apply the Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System Sensor to the back of the
upper arm. If placed in other areas, the Sensor may not function properly.
Taking more than 1000 mg of Vitamin C per day may falsely raise your Libre Rio Continuous
Glucose Monitoring System readings. Vitamin C can be found in supplements including
multivitamins and cold remedies such as Airborne® and Emergen-C®. See your health care
professional to understand how long Vitamin C is active in your body.
D Special Instrument Requirements:
Not Applicable.
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (herein referred to as the 'Libre Rio
System' or 'System') is an integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM) that
provides continuous glucose measurements every minute to facilitate calculation of glucose
values accompanied by trend information (glucose arrows) and historical glucose information
K233861 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
(glucose graph). The System is intended for over-the-counter use in a home setting. The System
consists of the following components: a Sensor which transmits via Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE), and a mobile application Libre Rio App that is downloaded to a compatible smartphone
running iOS and Android operating system. The Libre Rio System is compatible with the Libre
Data Sharing API cleared under K223537. The display device of the connected Libre Rio
System, which directly receives the data from the Sensor, continues to serve as a primary display
device of the glucose data.
B Principle of Operation:
The Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System uses an electrochemical sensor to
monitor glucose levels in the interstitial fluid (ISF). The sensor is held in place with an adhesive
pad and incorporates both the subcutaneously implanted sensor and associated electronics. The
sensor uses a glucose oxidase enzyme to oxidize glucose and transfer electrons to an electrode,
producing a current. The strength of the current is proportional to the amount of glucose present
in the ISF. The system converts the electrical current signal to a glucose value (in mg/dL) for
display to the user on a display device.
C Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System
2. Specimen Identification:
Not applicable
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable
4. Calibration:
The sensor is factory calibrated and does not require calibration from the user/operator.
5. Quality Control:
Not applicable
This medical device product has functions subject to FDA premarket review as well as functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review. For this application, if the product has functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review, FDA assessed those functions only to the extent
that they either could adversely impact the safety and effectiveness of the functions subject to
FDA premarket review or they are included as a labeled positive impact that was considered in
the assessment of the functions subject to FDA premarket review.
K233861 - Page 3 of 8

--- Page 4 ---
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash Glucose Monitoring System
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K222447
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K233861 K222447
Device(s):
Libre Rio Continuous FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Device Trade Name Glucose Monitoring Glucose Monitoring
System System
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
The System is intended
to monitor interstitial
fluid glucose
Intended Use/Indications
concentrations and Same
For Use
communicate with
digitally connected
devices.
Amperometric
measurement of current
proportional to glucose
Principle of operation concentration in Same
interstitial fluid via
glucose oxidase
chemical reaction
Measuring range 40 to 400 mg/dL Same
Site of use Home Same
Sensor calibration Factory calibrated Same
Sensor hardware
Sensor hardware established for the Same
predicate device
App compatibility iOS and Android Same
Enables users to share
their glucose data with
authorized client
Application Programming software.
Same
Interfaces (APIs) Can communicate
iCGM data wirelessly
and securely to and
from digitally
K233861 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		K233861	K222447
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Libre Rio Continuous
Glucose Monitoring
System	FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring
System
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			The System is intended
to monitor interstitial
fluid glucose
concentrations and
communicate with
digitally connected
devices.	Same
Principle of operation			Amperometric
measurement of current
proportional to glucose
concentration in
interstitial fluid via
glucose oxidase
chemical reaction	Same
Measuring range			40 to 400 mg/dL	Same
Site of use			Home	Same
Sensor calibration			Factory calibrated	Same
Sensor hardware			Sensor hardware
established for the
predicate device	Same
App compatibility			iOS and Android	Same
Application Programming
Interfaces (APIs)			Enables users to share
their glucose data with
authorized client
software.
Can communicate
iCGM data wirelessly
and securely to and
from digitally	Same

[Table 2 on page 4]
FreeStyle Libre 2 Flash
Glucose Monitoring

--- Page 5 ---
connected devices
(client software)
through a cloud-based
communication method,
the Libre Data Sharing
API.
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Persons age 18 and Persons with diabetes
Intended use population
older not on insulin age 2 and older
Device use Over the counter Prescription use
Optional Glucose
Alarms: Low Glucose
Alarm, High Glucose
No mandatory or
Alarm
optional alarms for low
Glucose alarms
glucose, high glucose,
Mandatory Glucose
or urgent low glucose
Alarms: Urgent Low
Glucose Alarm
Interoperable with AID
No Yes
systems
Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE). Data
automatically transfers
and displays glucose
data without user-
initiated scan BLE for glucose data
Method to display current
(streaming data). transfer. User-initiated
glucose result and trend
A user-initiated scan scan via NFC required
arrow
can also be performed to display glucose data.
to display real-time
glucose data and
historical data,
consistent with the
predicate App.
Contraindications against
MRI, Diathermy and
MRI/diathermy/CT Diathermy
CT
K233861 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
			connected devices
(client software)
through a cloud-based
communication method,
the Libre Data Sharing
API.	
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Intended use population			Persons age 18 and
older not on insulin	Persons with diabetes
age 2 and older
Device use			Over the counter	Prescription use
Glucose alarms			No mandatory or
optional alarms for low
glucose, high glucose,
or urgent low glucose	Optional Glucose
Alarms: Low Glucose
Alarm, High Glucose
Alarm
Mandatory Glucose
Alarms: Urgent Low
Glucose Alarm
Interoperable with AID
systems			No	Yes
Method to display current
glucose result and trend
arrow			Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE). Data
automatically transfers
and displays glucose
data without user-
initiated scan
(streaming data).
A user-initiated scan
can also be performed
to display real-time
glucose data and
historical data,
consistent with the
predicate App.	BLE for glucose data
transfer. User-initiated
scan via NFC required
to display glucose data.
Contraindications against
MRI/diathermy/CT			Diathermy	MRI, Diathermy and
CT

--- Page 6 ---
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
• 21 CFR 862.1355 (integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM)) special
controls
• ISO14971- 2019-12 “Medical Devices-Application of Risk Management to Medical
Devices”
• IEC 62304 -“Medical Device Software-Software Life Cycle Processes”
• IEC 60601-1-“Medical Electrical Equipment -Part 1: General Requirements for Basic
Safety and Essential Performance”
• AAMI TIR69-“Risk Management of Radio-Frequency Wireless Coexistence for
Medical Devices and Systems”
• AAMI TIR57: 2016- “Principles for medical device security – Risk management”
• IEC 60601-1-2-“Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for
basic safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic
disturbances - Requirements and tests”
• ISO 15223-1-“Medical Device-Symbols to be used with Medical Device Labels,
Labeling and Information to be Supplied-Part 1: General Requirements”
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established in K222447.
2. Linearity:
See Assay Reportable Range below.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Previously established in K222447.
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Previously established in K222447.
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
The FSL2 sensor storage shelf-life of 9 months at 36 to 82 °F within the humidity range of
10 % - 90 % was previously established in K222447.
6. Detection Limit:
Previously established in K222447.
K233861 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Previously established in K222447.
8. Accuracy (Instrument):
See comparison studies below.
9. Carry-Over:
Not applicable.
B Comparison Studies:
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
Previously established in K222447.
2. Matrix Comparison:
Not applicable.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable.
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable.
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Previously established in K222447.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
The glucose measurement range of the device is 40 to 400 mg/dL.
K233861 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
F Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Software Verification and Validation
Software verification and validation testing was conducted in accordance with established
specifications and IEC 62304 and documentation was provided as recommended by FDA
Guidance “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,” issued June 14,
2023. Results of executed protocols met the acceptance criteria and therefore support that the
sensor’s embedded software and the Libre Rio App software are acceptable for its intended use.
Cybersecurity
The sponsor has provided cybersecurity risk management documentation for the System that
includes analysis of confidentiality, integrity, and availability for data, information and software
related to the System accordance with FDA Guidance “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices:
Quality System Considerations and Content of Premarket Submissions,” issued September 27,
2023. For each identified threat and vulnerability risk event scenario, risk assessment of impact
to confidentiality integrity, and availability was performed and documented within the
cybersecurity risk management documentation. Appropriate risk mitigation controls have been
implemented and tested.
Human Factors
The user interface of the Libre Rio Continuous Glucose Monitoring System has been found to
support that the device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device for the intended users,
uses, and use environments.
Bench Testing – MR, CT, X-Ray Compatibility
In k233537, bench testing was performed to support the removal of the contraindications against
MRI and CT scans for the FSL2. As the sensor component of the subject device is identical to
the FSL2, the subject device is labeled MR conditional, and the warning and caution against CT
scans and X-Rays is removed in the subject device.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K233861 - Page 8 of 8