
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K234055
B Applicant
Deka Research and Development
C Proprietary and Established Names
DEKA Loop
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1356 - Interoperable CH - Clinical
QJI Class II
Automated Glycemic Controller Chemistry
E Purpose for Submission
New device
II Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
DEKA Loop is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose monitors (iCGM)
and the DEKA alternate controller enabled (ACE) insulin infusion pump to automatically
increase, decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted
glucose values. It can also recommend, and with the user’s confirmation, control the delivery of
correction boluses when glucose values are predicted to exceed user configurable thresholds.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QJI			Class II	21 CFR 862.1356 - Interoperable
Automated Glycemic Controller			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
DEKA Loop is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons six years of
age and greater.
DEKA Loop is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
DEKA Loop is not indicated for use by anyone who is pregnant, on dialysis, or critically ill. It is
not known how different conditions or medications used in these scenarios may affect
performance of the DEKA ACE Pump System with DEKA Loop. CGM readings being used by
the system may be inaccurate in these cases, meaning the DEKA Loop will not have accurate
information to use for dosage recommendations. This could result in over-delivery or under-
delivery of insulin, which can lead to low and high blood glucose.
Do not use DEKA Loop when using hydroxyurea, a medication used in the treatment of diseases
including cancer and sickle cell anemia. CGM readings being used by the system may be
inaccurate while taking hydroxyurea, meaning the DEKA Loop will not have accurate
information to use for dosage recommendations. This could result in over-delivery of insulin,
which can lead to hypoglycemia. Talk to your healthcare provider about using your BG meter for
treatment decisions instead.
Do not use DEKA Loop if you are taking GLP-1 agonists or SGLT-2 inhibitors, metformin, or
DPP-4. DEKA Loop has not been tested in populations using additional diabetes medications
and the performance of the system in conjunction with these medications is unknown.
Do not take external insulin, such as manual insulin injections or inhaled insulins, while the
DEKA Loop automation is enabled on the DEKA ACE Pump System. DEKA Loop does not
receive information about insulin taken outside the system. If you choose to take additional
insulin with another method while the DEKA Loop automation is enabled on the DEKA ACE
Pump System, over-delivery or under-delivery of insulin may occur, which can lead to low and
high blood glucose. Consult with your healthcare provider about how long to wait after manually
taking insulin before enabling DEKA Loop automated insulin delivery.
III Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The DEKA Loop is a software-only device and resides on the DEKA ACE pump (K233952).
The DEKA Loop is an interoperable Alternate Glycemic Controller (iAGC) and works to control
an ACE (Alternate Controller Enabled) insulin pump to automatically increase, decrease, and
suspend delivery of basal insulin based on readings from an iCGM (integrated continuous
glucose monitor) and glucose values predicted by the DEKA Loop. The DEKA Loop can also
recommend, and with the user’s confirmation, control the delivery of correction boluses when
glucose values are predicted to exceed user configurable thresholds.
The DEKA Loop is a ported version of the Tidepool Loop iAGC cleared in K203689 and is
embedded within the DEKA ACE Pump System. As with the cleared Tidepool Loop device, the
K234055 - Page 2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---
DEKA Loop predicts glucose levels up to 6 hours in the future based on prior iCGM readings,
insulin delivery history, and user input (e.g., carbohydrate intake and exercise), and uses that
prediction to adjust insulin delivery. DEKA Loop requires that users input their specific therapy
settings, which are established with the help of their health care provider before using the device,
as part of the prescription process. These settings include:
• Target Correction Ranges for normal operation, pre-meal, and workout presets
Settings can be programmed as low as 87 mg/dL and as high as 180 mg/dL and
o
different ranges can be added for different times of day.
• Glucose Safety Limit
Settings can be programmed as low as 67 mg/dL, or as high as 110 mg/dL or the
o
Correction Range minimum, whichever is lower.
• Carb to Insulin Ratios
• Insulin sensitivity factors
• Basal rates
• Max basal rate
• Max bolus
IV Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Tidepool Loop
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K203689
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K234055 K203689
Device(s):
Device Trade Name DEKA Loop Tidepool Loop
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
The device is intended for use with
compatible integrated continuous
glucose monitors (iCGM) and
alternate controller enabled (ACE)
pumps to automatically increase,
decrease, and suspend delivery of
Intended Use/Indications
basal insulin based on iCGM Same
For Use
readings and predicted glucose
values. It can also recommend and
deliver correction boluses when
glucose values are predicted to
exceed user configurable
thresholds.
K234055 - Page 3 of 7

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device & Predicate		K234055	K203689
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			DEKA Loop	Tidepool Loop
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Intended Use/Indications
For Use			The device is intended for use with
compatible integrated continuous
glucose monitors (iCGM) and
alternate controller enabled (ACE)
pumps to automatically increase,
decrease, and suspend delivery of
basal insulin based on iCGM
readings and predicted glucose
values. It can also recommend and
deliver correction boluses when
glucose values are predicted to
exceed user configurable
thresholds.	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Persons with Type 1 Diabetes
Intended use population Same
Mellitus ages 6 and above
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Device Hosting Controller DEKA ACE Pump System iPhone
ACE pumps that have
the specifications and
Compatible ACE Pump DEKA ACE Pump System
meet the pre-specified
acceptance criteria.
V Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
Special controls established under 21 CFR 862.1356 for interoperable automated glycemic
controller.
VI Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
1. In-silico simulation testing
The DEKA Loop is a ported version of the Tidepool Loop device, cleared under k203689.
The DEKA Loop is intended to function identically to the Tidepool Loop, with the only
differences being the physical location of the algorithm (i.e., integrated into the DEKA ACE
pump in the case of the DEKA Loop, versus residing on a separate smartphone app in the
case of the Tidepool Loop), and the programming language the device software is written in.
To demonstrate that the DEKA Loop functions identically to the Tidepool Loop, and to
support leveraging the clinical validation used for the Tidepool Loop, DEKA provided the
results of software equivalency tests.
DEKA used a layered approach as the test strategy to verify algorithm equivalence between
the Tidepool Loop and the DEKA Loop. In addition to unit testing and software requirement
verification testing for supporting the porting strategy, DEKA has performed equivalence
testing to demonstrate clinical equivalence between the DEKA Loop and the Tidepool Loop,
including single input vector integration testing, targeted scenario in-silico testing, and
massively distributed random in-silico testing. Integration-level in-silico testing was
conducted using target hardware for the DEKA Loop and Tidepool Loop (e.g., the DEKA
ACE pump hardware, and an Apple iPhone developer’s emulator, respectively).
DEKA conducted side-by-side unit testing on the DEKA Loop and Tidepool Loop devices
with 100% code coverage. Results of the unit testing demonstrated that the two devices are
logically equivalent at the unit level.
The primary equivalence metric used by DEKA to compare the two iAGC devices during
integration testing with time series data is the Raw Glucose Equivalence over the duration of
testing, which is defined as the root mean squared (RMS) percent difference.
K234055 - Page 4 of 7

[Table 1 on page 4]
Intended use population			Persons with Type 1 Diabetes
Mellitus ages 6 and above	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Device Hosting Controller			DEKA ACE Pump System	iPhone
Compatible ACE Pump			DEKA ACE Pump System	ACE pumps that have
the specifications and
meet the pre-specified
acceptance criteria.

--- Page 5 ---
The single input vector integration testing challenged both the DEKA Loop and the Tidepool
Loop with a series of pre-defined input vectors and verified the equivalence of their outputs,
as well as equivalence of intermediate calculations used in the calculation of outputs. In the
single input vector integration testing, 25 input vectors were used, and the results of multiple
different computations within the iAGC algorithms were compared to evaluate the
equivalence of the two iAGC devices, including device output (bolus and basal
recommendations), as well as multiple intermediate calculations. The overall Raw Glucose
Equivalence metric was 99.99%, and the range across individual scenarios was 99.62% to
100%. Comparing device outputs, bolus recommendations showed overall equivalence of
100%, and basal recommendations showed overall equivalence of 99.97% (range: 99.62 -
100%). All instances of discrepant results were analyzed and determined to be the result of
differences in the floating-point hardware used on the two different hardware platforms and
not the result of different iAGC functionality. Results supported a finding of substantial
equivalence.
Targeted scenario in-silico testing provided additional supporting evidence of clinical
equivalence between the subject device and the predicate. This testing added an in-silico
human body model to the test system to challenge the combined algorithm/body model
systems with clinically-relevant scenario-based inputs. In the targeted scenario in-silico
testing, 15 scenarios were chosen to characterize the relative responses of the two iAGC
devices across the expected variety of inputs including meals, exercise, CGM bias, CGM
signal loss, and boluses. These scenarios were a series of events that would be expected
under normal operation of the system and were designed to last 24 hours. The Raw Glucose
Equivalence metric range for these 15 scenarios was from 99.76% to 100%. Results
supported a finding of substantial equivalence.
Massively distributed random in-silico testing was used to create approximately one million
random variants of a 24-hour sequence of input conditions to test the equivalence of the
DEKA Loop and the Tidepool Loop for 24 million simulated-use hours. In the massively
distributed random in-silico testing, the test system used software to generate 24-hour
sequences of random inputs from a set of defined variables. The same set of input scenarios
were applied to both the Tidepool Loop and DEKA Loop algorithms to permit assessment of
overall equivalency between the algorithms to be evaluated. Results showed numerically
and/or clinically equivalent performance in 99.76% of scenarios. In 0.24% of scenarios, non-
equivalent performance was observed. All non-equivalent results were reviewed and
analyzed individually. The differences in simulation results were determined to be the result
of numerical differences in floating-point calculations that, on rare occasions, could result in
a transition above or below a hard threshold in the simulation framework or in the Loop
algorithm, leading to different simulation results. In all instances it was determined that the
DEKA Loop algorithm behaved as expected.
Taken together, the results of all software equivalency tests support a finding of substantial
equivalence.
2. Human Factors
Human factors validation tests were conducted with the DEKA Loop in its finished
configuration (i.e., integrated into the DEKA ACE Pump System). All study participants
K234055 - Page 5 of 7

--- Page 6 ---
received training that was consistent with the training that healthcare professionals and
patients would receive with the commercial product. Usability evaluations assessed
comprehension and usability of the device for critical tasks. Results of the study
demonstrated that the DEKA Loop within the DEKA ACE Pump System is validated for its
intended use.
3. User Training
The following user training modes were validated as part of the human factors validation:
- In-person training of health care professionals
Certified Diabetes Care and Education Specialists (CDCES)
o
Registered Nurses (RNs)
o
- In-person training, 1:1 from the trained trainers described above
The commercial implementation of the device utilizes a “train the trainer” approach wherein
CDCES and RNs receive a 5 hour training from the manufacturer of the device and become
qualified trainers. The device manufacturer determined if the trainers had sufficient system
knowledge to then train the patients that use the device. This method of training the trainers
was validated in the human factors study.
1:1 in-person user training provided by trained healthcare professionals representative of
those available in a clinical setting was validated as part of human factors that had a duration
of 3 hours. As part of this evaluation, a trainer guide was provided for the trainer to follow to
train the intended users of this device. The trainer guide covers how the device works, what
is included in the box, setting up the device, and assessment of user training results at each
step for use of the device. A user training guide was also provided for device users. The
trainer is expected to determine that users are competent in the use of the system or if
additional training is required.
4. Interoperability
A plan and approach for interoperability were provided and determined to be adequate to
support and clearly specify expectations, requirements, and interface specifications for
potential interoperable devices. The sponsor has established plans for interfacing with ACE
pumps and iCGMs. The DEKA ACE Pump System is designed to be interoperable with the
Dexcom G6 using Bluetooth LE. Details were provided in the Software Requirements and
Design for iCGM Interface Subsystem. Further, the sponsor has performed software and
bench testing to verify and validate that these interface control specifications meet the special
controls and their controller’s requirements for performance, communications, and data
logging. The same approach will be used when integrating with other iCGMs in the future.
The DEKA Loop uses the same requirements for compatible iCGM performance as
established for Tidepool Loop.
DEKA Loop will not allow use of an unvalidated ACE pump or iCGM. By design, DEKA
Loop can only be used with compatible ACE Pumps (e.g., DEKA ACE Pump System,
K233952) and iCGMs (e.g., Dexcom G6, K203089) with which it has been validated for use.
DEKA Loop currently receives glucose information through the DEKA ACE Pump System
that only contains the interface to the Dexcom G6 iCGM.
K234055 - Page 6 of 7

--- Page 7 ---
In addition, the plans provided by the sponsor covered their approach to working with
connected device companies regarding contractual issues, interfaces for data communication
and exchange, and post-market reporting procedures and responsibilities (e.g., who is
responsible for investigating and reporting complaints, malfunctions, and adverse events).
The approach was determined to acceptably align with FDA-recognized ANSI/AAMI/UL
2800-1:2019 Standard for Safety for Medical Device Interoperability.
5. Postmarket Surveillance Study:
As described in the decision summary for the predicate device, at the time of clearance for
the predicate Tidepool Loop (K203689) there was uncertainty remaining regarding the
clinical performance and risk/benefit profile of that device when used in the broader intended
use population as compared to those studied in the Tidepool premarket study, and a
postmarket surveillance study would be ordered by FDA to confirm understanding of safety.
As of the time of this clearance for the DEKA Loop device, the Tidepool Loop device has
not begun commercial distribution. Therefore, the planned postmarket surveillance study for
the Tidepool Loop has not begun.
The premarket clinical study of the Tidepool Loop was leveraged to support clearance of the
DEKA Loop. As a result, the same uncertainty regarding clinical performance and
risk/benefit profile exists for the DEKA Loop device. Accordingly, a postmarket surveillance
study will be ordered by FDA to confirm performance and understanding of safety of this
device.
VII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
VIII Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K234055 - Page 7 of 7