
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K240303
B Applicant
JelloX Biotech Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
QKQ Class II PA - Pathology
Slide Imaging System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device
B Type of Test:
Software only device
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
B Indication(s) for Use:
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software is a software only device intended for viewing and
management of digital images of scanned surgical pathology slides prepared from formalin-fixed
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
QKQ			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
Slide Imaging System			PA - Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue for the purposes of pathology primary diagnosis. It is an aid
to the pathologist to review, interpret and manage digital images of pathology slides.
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software is not intended for use with frozen section, cytology,
or non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
It is the responsibility of a qualified pathologist to employ appropriate procedures and
safeguards to assure the quality of the images obtained and, where necessary, use
conventional light microscopy review when making a diagnostic decision. MetaLite DX
Digital Pathology Software is intended for use with Philips Ultra Fast Scanner and the Barco
MDPC-8127 display.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software, Model MLDXUS, version 1.2.0 is software designed
for viewing digital pathology images of glass slides from the Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution Ultra Fast Scanner (PIPS-UFS), version 1.8.4 on Barco MDPC-8127 display.
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software is operated as follows:
1. After the Whole Slide Images (WSIs) are successfully, acquired by using PIPS-UFS, the WSIs
are stored in the Local file system. Scanned images are reviewed by scanning personnel such
as histotechnicians to confirm image quality and initiate any re-scans before making it
available to the pathologist per the instructions for use PIPS-UFS.
2. A qualified pathologist will upload compatible iSyntax format digital pathology images, and
the software will load them to the “Main Viewer” area of the graphical interface for the
pathologist to view.
3. Once properly loaded, the pathologist performs quality control procedures per the Quality
Control section below. The pathologist can use the device to view and review images using
the device features such as zoom-in and zoom-out functions, scale display, thumbnail view,
measurement function, annotation function, and panning function.
4. After viewing all images for a patient (case), the pathologist will make a diagnosis. The
diagnosis will be documented in another system, e.g., a Laboratory Information System (LIS).
The MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software is validated for use with the components specified
the tables below.
Table 1. Interoperable Components for Use with MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software
Component Manufacturer Model
Scanner Philips Medical Systems Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS),
Nederland B.V. version 1.8.4
K240303 - Page 2 of 8

[Table 1 on page 2]
	Component			Manufacturer			Model	
Scanner			Philips Medical Systems
Nederland B.V.			Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS),
version 1.8.4		

--- Page 3 ---
Display Barco NV MDPC-8127
Table 2. Computer Environment/System Requirements
Environment Component Minimum Requirements
Client PC
Hardware Processor Intel® Core (TM) I7 11th Gen or above
Memory 16GB or above
Storage USB Flash Drive 8GB or above
Software Operating System Windows 10 or above
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software
2. Specimen Identification:
The MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software uses WSIs obtained from the PIPS-UFS of
slides prepared from FFPE tissue. The reading pathologist selects a case (patient) from a
local folder for viewing with the subject device.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Specimen sampling and handling are performed upstream and independent of the use of the
subject device. Specimen sampling includes biopsy or resection specimens which are
processed using histology techniques. Digital images (WSIs) are then obtained from these
glass slides using the PIPS-UFS.
4. Calibration:
Not applicable.
5. Quality Control:
The subject device receives WSIs from local computer storage. All WSI files are quality-
controlled images acquired from the scanner according to the scanner’s instructions for use.
The subject device specific quality control measures are performed by viewing the pathology
images. Every pathologist should perform this test on review workstation before reading
pathology images using the subject device to ensure that all scanned slide images have been
imported and for every case, view the thumbnails in the pathology image window to verify
that each slide that should be in the case is present.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K203845
K240303 - Page 3 of 8

[Table 1 on page 3]
Display	Barco NV	MDPC-8127

[Table 2 on page 3]
	Environment			Component			Minimum Requirements	
Client PC								
Hardware			Processor			Intel® Core (TM) I7 11th Gen or above		
			Memory			16GB or above		
			Storage			USB Flash Drive 8GB or above		
Software			Operating System			Windows 10 or above		

--- Page 4 ---
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate K240303 K203845
Device(s):
Device Trade MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
Name Software (PIPS)
General Device Characteristic Similarities
For In Vitro Diagnostic Use The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated digital
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
slide creation, viewing, and
Software is a software only device
management system. The PIPS is
intended for viewing and
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
management of digital images of
aid to the pathologist to review and
scanned surgical pathology slides
interpret digital images of surgical
prepared from formalin-fixed
pathology slides prepared from
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue
formalin-fixed paraffin embedded
for the purposes of pathology
(FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is not intended
primary diagnosis. It is an aid to
for use with frozen section, cytology, or
the pathologist to review, interpret
non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
and manage digital images of
pathology slides.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Intended MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Management System (IMS), the Ultra
Use/Indications Software is not intended for use Fast Scanner (UFS) and Display. The
For Use with frozen section, cytology, or PIPS is for creation and viewing of
non-FFPE hematopathology digital images of scanned glass slides
specimens. that would otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by conventional
It is the responsibility of a qualified light microscopy. It is the responsibility
pathologist to employ appropriate of a qualified pathologist to employ
procedures and safeguards to appropriate procedures and safeguards
assure the quality of the images to assure the validity of the
obtained and, where necessary, use interpretation of images obtained using
conventional light microscopy PIPS.
review when making a diagnostic
decision. MetaLite DX Digital
Pathology Software is intended for
use with Philips Ultra Fast Scanner
and the Barco MDPC-8127 display.
Specimen Type Digitized surgical pathology slides Same
prepared from FFPE tissue.
Diagnostic iSyntax Same
Image File
Format
Image Panning, zooming, color Panning, zooming, color manipulation
Manipulation manipulation function, annotations, function, annotations, and
Functions and measurements (distance) measurements (distance & area)
K240303 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device &		K240303	K203845	
	Predicate				
	Device(s):				
Device Trade
Name			MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software	Philips IntelliSite Pathology Solution
(PIPS)	
	General Device Characteristic Similarities				
Intended
Use/Indications
For Use			For In Vitro Diagnostic Use
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software is a software only device
intended for viewing and
management of digital images of
scanned surgical pathology slides
prepared from formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue
for the purposes of pathology
primary diagnosis. It is an aid to
the pathologist to review, interpret
and manage digital images of
pathology slides.
MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software is not intended for use
with frozen section, cytology, or
non-FFPE hematopathology
specimens.
It is the responsibility of a qualified
pathologist to employ appropriate
procedures and safeguards to
assure the quality of the images
obtained and, where necessary, use
conventional light microscopy
review when making a diagnostic
decision. MetaLite DX Digital
Pathology Software is intended for
use with Philips Ultra Fast Scanner
and the Barco MDPC-8127 display.	The Philips IntelliSite Pathology
Solution (PIPS) is an automated digital
slide creation, viewing, and
management system. The PIPS is
intended for in vitro diagnostic use as an
aid to the pathologist to review and
interpret digital images of surgical
pathology slides prepared from
formalin-fixed paraffin embedded
(FFPE) tissue. The PIPS is not intended
for use with frozen section, cytology, or
non-FFPE hematopathology specimens.
The PIPS comprises the Image
Management System (IMS), the Ultra
Fast Scanner (UFS) and Display. The
PIPS is for creation and viewing of
digital images of scanned glass slides
that would otherwise be appropriate for
manual visualization by conventional
light microscopy. It is the responsibility
of a qualified pathologist to employ
appropriate procedures and safeguards
to assure the validity of the
interpretation of images obtained using
PIPS.	
Specimen Type			Digitized surgical pathology slides
prepared from FFPE tissue.	Same	
Diagnostic
Image File
Format			iSyntax	Same	
Image
Manipulation
Functions			Panning, zooming, color
manipulation function, annotations,
and measurements (distance)	Panning, zooming, color manipulation
function, annotations, and
measurements (distance & area)	

--- Page 5 ---
General Device Characteristic Differences
Type of Stand-alone software Internet browser-based application
Software
Application
Device MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Components Software Management System (IMS) and Display
Principle of After WSI images are successfully After WSI images are successfully
Operation acquired using the PIPS-UFS, the acquired by using PIPS-UFS, the WSI
pathologist performs further QC images are stored in IMS Application
and reads WSI images of the slides Server & Storage software that is not
to make a diagnosis. provided as part of the PIPS but may be
located in a central server room separate
from the workstation with the IMS
viewing software and Display. During
review, the pathologist opens WSI
images from IMS Server & Storage,
perform further QC and reads WSI
images of the slides to make a
diagnosis.
Image Storage Images are stored in the local After WSI images are successfully
computer. acquired by using PIPS UFS, the WSI
images are stored in IMS Application
Server & Storage software that is not
provided as part of the PIPS but may be
located in a central server room separate
from the workstation with the IMS
viewing software and Display. During
review, the pathologist opens WSI
images from IMS Server & Storage,
perform further QC and reads WSI
images of the slides to make a
diagnosis.
End User’s MetaLite DX Digital Pathology PIPS Image Management System (IMS)
Interface Software
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
1. FDA Guidance “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole Slide Imaging
Devices". April 20, 2016.
2. FDA Guidance “Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical
Devices”. February 3, 2016.
3. FDA Guidance “Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions”. June
14, 2023.
4. FDA Guidance “Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions”. September 27, 2023.
K240303 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
	General Device Characteristic Differences			
Type of
Software
Application		Stand-alone software	Internet browser-based application	
Device
Components		MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software	Ultra Fast Scanner (UFS), Image
Management System (IMS) and Display	
Principle of
Operation		After WSI images are successfully
acquired using the PIPS-UFS, the
pathologist performs further QC
and reads WSI images of the slides
to make a diagnosis.	After WSI images are successfully
acquired by using PIPS-UFS, the WSI
images are stored in IMS Application
Server & Storage software that is not
provided as part of the PIPS but may be
located in a central server room separate
from the workstation with the IMS
viewing software and Display. During
review, the pathologist opens WSI
images from IMS Server & Storage,
perform further QC and reads WSI
images of the slides to make a
diagnosis.	
Image Storage		Images are stored in the local
computer.	After WSI images are successfully
acquired by using PIPS UFS, the WSI
images are stored in IMS Application
Server & Storage software that is not
provided as part of the PIPS but may be
located in a central server room separate
from the workstation with the IMS
viewing software and Display. During
review, the pathologist opens WSI
images from IMS Server & Storage,
perform further QC and reads WSI
images of the slides to make a
diagnosis.	
End User’s
Interface		MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software	PIPS Image Management System (IMS)	

--- Page 6 ---
5. AAMI TIR 45:2012 - Guidance on the use of AGILE practices in the development of
medical device software.
6. IEC 62304 Edition 1.1 2015-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION, 13-79. Medical device
software – Software life cycle processes.
7. IEC 62366-1 Edition 1.1 2020-06 CONSOLIDATED VERSION, 5-129, Application of
usability engineering to medical devices.
8. ISO 14971 Third Edition 2019-12, 5-125, Medical devices – Applications of risk
management to medical devices.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Not applicable
2. Linearity:
Not applicable
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Not applicable
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable
5. Carry-Over:
Not applicable
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Technical performance testing was conducted with the subject device, MetaLite DX Digital
Pathology Software as specified below.
1. Bench Testing - Pixelwise comparison test
Pixel-wise comparison testing to demonstrate identical image reproduction was conducted to
compare WSIs reproduced by the subject device and PIPS IMS. The subject device was
compared to the predicate device’s image review manipulation software (IRMS, as defined in
FDA guidance document, “Technical Performance Assessment of Digital Pathology Whole
Slide Imaging Devices” dated April 20, 2016) using the quantitative pixel-wise comparison
method. The basis for the comparison was the CIEDE2000 color difference equation, ΔE.
The devices were tested as operating with the intended components, including the scanner
(PIPS UFS), image management system (PIPS IMS, MetaLite DX Digital Pathology
Software) and display (Barco MDPC 8127).
The device was tested with multiple slides across multiple regions of interest (ROI) at
multiple magnification levels. A total of 30 H&E-stained, FFPE glass slides of normal and
tumor tissues from various human anatomical organs were used in the testing. The glass
slides were scanned on a PIPS UFS version 1.8.4 to obtain 30 WSIs. For each of the 30
K240303 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
WSIs, 3 ROIs from different locations were selected by qualified personnel to represent
various features in the tissue samples. Each ROI was captured at 2 magnification levels (20x,
40x).
The screenshots were captured from the intended display while viewing with the subject
device and predicate PIPS IMS. The screenshots were cropped and registered to be pixelwise
comparable. The cropped image included most of the pixels in the image except for those in
the viewer-specific user interface areas.
Two sets of images were collected: PIPS IMS and MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software.
Each image set included 180 images that covered all combinations of 30 slides, 3 ROIs and 2
magnification levels. The testing data, including the overview images of the 30 glass slides
with annotations of the ROIs, registration/cropping information, and captured images, were
provided in the FDA specific format.
The PIPS IMS image set was used as the reference to compare the MetaLite DX Digital
Pathology Software image set to determine whether all the 180 image-pairs were identical.
Two images are considered identical if the 95th percentile of the pixelwise differences,
computed using the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) color difference metric
CIEDE2000 (ΔE ), is less than 3 ΔE . Testing results showed that the pixelwise differences
00 00
across all 180 image-pairs were less than 3 ΔE . The mean 95th percentile ΔE value was
00 00
1.1 with the lowest value reported as 0 and the highest reported as 2.5. Testing results
demonstrated that WSIs reproduced by MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software are
identical to images reproduced by the predicate device.
2. Turnaround Time
The turnaround times of the subject device were measured for the operations of image
opening, panning, and zooming. Video recording software and calibration time software were
used in the test to determine the turnaround time. The panning operation was executed by
moving the image by one quarter of the screen using mouse dragging. The zooming
operation was executed using the mouse wheel. Each operation was measured 10 times. The
acceptance criterion was set at 7 seconds with respect to the device’s intended use. Test
results show that all opening, panning, and zooming operations were completed within 5
seconds.
3. Measurement
The measurement accuracy of the subject device was tested. A calibration scale slide with
length marks of 100, 300, 600, 800, and 1000 μm was used as the target with known ground
truth. The scale was measured in both horizontal and vertical orientations using the subject
device. The error was calculated as the ratio of the difference between the measured length
and the actual length to the actual length. The acceptance criterion was set at 5% with respect
to the device’s intended use. The test was conducted under magnification levels of 40X, 20X,
10X, and 1X. Test results show that the errors of all test cases were less than 2.4%.
4. Human Factor (Usability) Testing
The Human Factors (HF) validation test was conducted to demonstrate that the device can be
used by the intended users without serious use errors or problems, for the intended uses and
under the expected use conditions. The HF validation test was performed by representative
K240303 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
users and conducted per FDA’s Guidance on Applying Human Factors and Usability
Engineering to Medical Devices (2016). A systematic evaluation of task-based usability
including critical tasks required for operation of the device were evaluated at multiple sites
using multiple users. All tasks associated with reviewing and reporting results for cases
including confirmation that all slides belonging to specific cases are reviewed before
reporting results, were included in the HF validation test. Overall, the results of the human
factors testing were acceptable. The MetaLite DX Digital Pathology Software device has
been found to be safe and effective for intended users, users and use environments.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K240303 - Page 8 of 8