
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K242783
B Applicant
Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Roche Digital Pathology Dx
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
PSY Class II PA - Pathology
Slide Imaging System
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
CLASS II device requiring 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER'S previously cleared device.
2. Submitter's statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device, specifically the Image Acquisition Unit (IAU), has not changed. This change is for
adding a new model of the slide scanner component which has increased slide capacity,
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PSY			Class II	21 CFR 864.3700 - Whole
Slide Imaging System			PA - Pathology

--- Page 2 ---
VENTANA DP 600 slide scanner, to the Roche Digital Pathology Dx [previously known
as Roche Digital Pathology Dx (VENTANA DP 200) under K232879] system. As a part
of the system modification, the system name is being changed to "Roche Digital
Pathology Dx".
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. Detailed technical documentation to show the following items to demonstrate that the pixel
pipelines are identical between VENTANA DP 600 slide scanner and the VENTANA DP200
slide scanner:
a) Definition of the IAU, the collection of all components related to the pixel pipeline,
including all electrical, optical, mechanical, and digital (software/firmware) components.
b) Description of the boundary of the IAU, including how the IAU interacts with the
remaining parts of the scanner via any electrical, optical, mechanical, and digital
interfaces.
c) List of the components that are not included in the IAU, to exhibit the differences
between the two scanners. Both items #a) and #c) constituted all components needed in
either scanner.
d) Description and justification that the pixel pipeline is not affected by any component in
item #c).
6. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information
between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific
technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as
specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
K242783 - Page 2 of 2