
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243543
B Applicant
iLine Microsystems S.L.
C Proprietary and Established Names
microINR System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 864.7750
GJS Class II HE - Hematology
Prothrombin Time Test
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
Addition of new functionalities to the existing device
B Measurand:
International Normalized Ratio (INR)
C Type of Test:
Microfluidic technology with machine vision detection
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
GJS			Class II	21 CFR 864.7750
Prothrombin Time Test			HE - Hematology

--- Page 2 ---
B Indication(s) for Use:
The microINR System measures prothrombin time (PT) expressed in International Normalized
Ratio (INR), for monitoring oral anticoagulant therapy with warfarin.
The microINR System consists of a meter and chips (test strips) and uses fresh capillary whole
blood from a fingerstick.
The microINR System is intended for patient self-testing use as well as for healthcare
professionals at Point of Care settings.
The microINR System is intended for use in patients 18 years old or older. Patients must be
stable on warfarin medication for at least 6 weeks before starting to use the microINR System.
For Self-testing use: The System is intended for properly trained users under specific
prescription of a physician.
Caution: The microINR System is not intended for use in patients who are transitioning from
heparin treatment to VKA therapy. The microINR System is not intended to be used for
screening purposes.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx - For Prescription Use Only
D Special Instrument Requirements:
microINR Expert Meter
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The microINR System is comprised of a portable measuring device (microINR Expert Meter)
and test strips (microINR Chips) in which the capillary blood sample flows through capillary
action. The microINR Chip contains a reagent in dried form which consists of thromboplastin,
and contains two symmetrical regions, the measuring channel and a control channel. The
microINR Expert Meter measures INR based on a prothrombin time (PT) assay carried out in the
microINR Chip based on microfluidic technology with machine vision detection.
The microINR System has a multi-level on-board quality control. The microINR Control
contains lyophilized human citrated plasma from healthy donors modified by means of a process
to simulate an abnormal coagulation sample and a calcium chloride solution. The lyophilized
plasma must be reconstituted with the calcium chloride solution before use.
The changes to the microINR Expert Meter include the incorporation of optional functions such
as connectivity functions (Wi-Fi and Ethernet connectivity on top of the Bluetooth connectivity
of the microINR Link), as well as other configurable settings (such as the option of including
operator and patient identification), a touchscreen, a barcode scanner, a new QC (quality control)
K243543 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
mode. The modifications have no impact on fundamental scientific technology and its
performance.
B Principle of Operation:
The microINR System is a handheld in vitro diagnostic medical device that uses microfluidic
technology with machine vision detection to measure the prothrombin time from a fresh capillary
(fingerstick) whole blood sample. The fresh capillary (fingerstick) whole blood sample is applied
to the microINR Chip (test strip) for testing. The microINR Chip is inserted into the analyzer.
Inside the test strip, the applied blood sample is separated into two channels and mixed with the
reagents contained in each micro-reactor. The coagulation cascade is triggered instantly after
mixing with the reagents (start time of the Prothrombin Time assay). When the blood coagulates
its viscosity increases due to fibrin clot formation, which generates a sharp change in blood flow
behavior. The Prothrombin Time measures how long it takes to form the fibrin clot after tissue
thromboplastin has been added to the sample. The microINR Meter measures the International
Normalized Ratio (INR) based on the Prothrombin Time (PT) assay carried out in the microINR
Chip and displays the International Normalized Ratio (INR) on the screen.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
microINR Meter and microINR Link Meter
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K180780 and K231711
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device &
Predicate
K243543 K231711 K180780
Device(s):
Device Trade microINR System
microINR System microINR System
Name
General Device
Characteristic
Similarities
The microINR System measures Same The microINR System
prothrombin time (PT) expressed (consisting of the
in International Normalized microINR Meter and the
Ratio (INR), for monitoring oral microINR Chip) is
anticoagulant therapy with intended for multiple-
Intended
warfarin. patient use by professional
Use/Indications For
The microINR System consists healthcare providers for the
Use
of a meter and chips (test strips) determination of
and uses fresh capillary whole International Normalized
blood from a fingerstick. Ratio (INR), to monitor
The microINR System is Oral Anticoagulation
intended for patient self-testing Therapy (OAT) with
K243543 - Page 3 of 8

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device &		K243543	K231711	K180780
	Predicate				
	Device(s):				
Device Trade
Name			microINR System	microINR System	microINR System
	General Device				
	Characteristic				
	Similarities				
Intended
Use/Indications For
Use			The microINR System measures
prothrombin time (PT) expressed
in International Normalized
Ratio (INR), for monitoring oral
anticoagulant therapy with
warfarin.
The microINR System consists
of a meter and chips (test strips)
and uses fresh capillary whole
blood from a fingerstick.
The microINR System is
intended for patient self-testing	Same	The microINR System
(consisting of the
microINR Meter and the
microINR Chip) is
intended for multiple-
patient use by professional
healthcare providers for the
determination of
International Normalized
Ratio (INR), to monitor
Oral Anticoagulation
Therapy (OAT) with

[Table 2 on page 3]

K243543

[Table 3 on page 3]

K231711

[Table 4 on page 3]

K180780

--- Page 4 ---
use as well as for healthcare warfarin. The microINR
professionals at Point of Care system uses fresh capillary
settings. whole blood. The
The microINR System is microINR System is
intended for use in patients 18 intended for in vitro
years old or older. Patients must diagnostic use at the point-
be stable on warfarin medication of-care.
for at least 6 weeks before The microINR System is
starting to use the microINR intended for use in patients
System. 18 years of age and older.
For Self-testing use: The System Patients must be stabilized
is intended for properly trained (≥6 weeks) on warfarin.
users under specific prescription Caution: The microINR
of a physician. System is not intended for
Caution: The microINR System use in patients who are
is not intended for use in patients transitioning from heparin
who are transitioning from treatment to warfarin
heparin treatment to VKA therapy. The microINR®
therapy. The microINR System System is not intended to
is not intended to be used for be used for screening
screening purposes. purposes.
Sample type Capillary whole blood. Same Same
Operating Principle Microfluidic technology with
Same Same
/Technology machine vision detection.
Human recombinant
Test Strip Reagent Same Same
thromboplastin
0.8 – 6.0 INR for professional
use*
0.8 – 6.0 INR for
0.8 – 4.5 INR for self-testing use.
Measuring Range Same professional use
(* INR visualization up to 4.5.
NA for self-testing
Both uses commercialized under
the same reference)
Each lot of test strips is
calibrated to a reference lot
Calibration
traceable to the WHO Same Same
traceability
International Reference
Preparation.
Reference Range
INR: 0.8 to 1.2 Same Same
Automatic, encoded on
Calibration disposable, no end user input Same Same
possible
Test Strip Stability 15 months Same Same
Test Strip Use 6 hours. Same 6 hours
Time (Limited to 15 minutes in IFU)
K243543 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	use as well as for healthcare
professionals at Point of Care
settings.
The microINR System is
intended for use in patients 18
years old or older. Patients must
be stable on warfarin medication
for at least 6 weeks before
starting to use the microINR
System.
For Self-testing use: The System
is intended for properly trained
users under specific prescription
of a physician.
Caution: The microINR System
is not intended for use in patients
who are transitioning from
heparin treatment to VKA
therapy. The microINR System
is not intended to be used for
screening purposes.		warfarin. The microINR
system uses fresh capillary
whole blood. The
microINR System is
intended for in vitro
diagnostic use at the point-
of-care.
The microINR System is
intended for use in patients
18 years of age and older.
Patients must be stabilized
(≥6 weeks) on warfarin.
Caution: The microINR
System is not intended for
use in patients who are
transitioning from heparin
treatment to warfarin
therapy. The microINR®
System is not intended to
be used for screening
purposes.
Sample type	Capillary whole blood.	Same	Same
Operating Principle
/Technology	Microfluidic technology with
machine vision detection.	Same	Same
Test Strip Reagent	Human recombinant
thromboplastin	Same	Same
Measuring Range	0.8 – 6.0 INR for professional
use*
0.8 – 4.5 INR for self-testing use.
(* INR visualization up to 4.5.
Both uses commercialized under
the same reference)	Same	0.8 – 6.0 INR for
professional use
NA for self-testing
Calibration
traceability	Each lot of test strips is
calibrated to a reference lot
traceable to the WHO
International Reference
Preparation.	Same	Same
Reference Range	INR: 0.8 to 1.2	Same	Same
Calibration	Automatic, encoded on
disposable, no end user input
possible	Same	Same
Test Strip Stability	15 months	Same	Same
Test Strip Use
Time	6 hours.
(Limited to 15 minutes in IFU)	Same	6 hours

--- Page 5 ---
Sample Volume A minimum of 3 μL Same Same
On-Board Quality Multi-level on-board quality
Same Same
Control controls
Automatic, encoded on
Expiration data
disposable, no end user input Same Same
lock out
possible
The microINR System is
intended to be used in Point of
Care settings such as physicians’
Limitations of POC offices and anticoagulation
Same No limitations
settings clinics, as well as home settings.
It is not intended to be used in
nursing homes, emergency
rooms or intensive care units.
General Device
Characteristic
Differences
External Liquid
Yes (optional) No Yes
Quality Control
USB connectivity Yes No Yes
Bluetooth
Yes (optional) Yes No
connectivity
Patient ID Yes (optional) No Yes (optional)
2,000 patient results and 500 199
199
Memory Capacity quality control test results (results with time
(results with time and date)
(results with time and date) and date)
Display: Touchable
Yes No No
screen
Barcode scanner Yes No No
Wi-Fi connectivity Yes (optional) No No
Ethernet
Yes (optional) No No
connectivity
Yes (optional)
Ethernet adaptor No No
(Sold separately)
Operator
Yes (optional) Only time and date Only time and date
identification
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
ISO 14971:2019 Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices.
IEC 62304:2006/AMD1:2015 Medical device software - Software life cycle processes.
K243543 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
Sample Volume			A minimum of 3 μL	Same	Same
On-Board Quality
Control			Multi-level on-board quality
controls	Same	Same
Expiration data
lock out			Automatic, encoded on
disposable, no end user input
possible	Same	Same
Limitations of POC
settings			The microINR System is
intended to be used in Point of
Care settings such as physicians’
offices and anticoagulation
clinics, as well as home settings.
It is not intended to be used in
nursing homes, emergency
rooms or intensive care units.	Same	No limitations
	General Device				
	Characteristic				
	Differences				
External Liquid
Quality Control			Yes (optional)	No	Yes
USB connectivity			Yes	No	Yes
Bluetooth
connectivity			Yes (optional)	Yes	No
Patient ID			Yes (optional)	No	Yes (optional)
Memory Capacity			2,000 patient results and 500
quality control test results
(results with time and date)	199
(results with time
and date)	199
(results with time and date)
Display: Touchable
screen			Yes	No	No
Barcode scanner			Yes	No	No
Wi-Fi connectivity			Yes (optional)	No	No
Ethernet
connectivity			Yes (optional)	No	No
Ethernet adaptor			Yes (optional)
(Sold separately)	No	No
Operator
identification			Yes (optional)	Only time and date	Only time and date

--- Page 6 ---
IEC 60601-1-2:2014 Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for basic
safety and essential performance – Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic disturbances –
Requirements and tests.
IEC 61010-1:2010/AMD1:2016/COR1:2019 Safety requirements for electrical equipment for
measurement, control, and laboratory use – Part 1: General requirements.
IEC 60601-1-2:2014/AMD1:2020 Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements
for basic safety and essential performance – Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic disturbances –
Requirements and tests.
IEC 60601-4-2:2024. Medical electrical equipment - Part 4-2: Guidance and interpretation -
Electromagnetic immunity: performance of medical electrical equipment and medical electrical
systems.
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Refer to K180780 and K201185.
2. Linearity:
Refer to K180780.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Refer to K180780.
4. Assay Reportable Range:
Refer to K180780 and K201185.
5. Traceability, Stability, Expected Values (Controls, Calibrators, or Methods):
Refer to K180780.
6. Detection Limit:
Refer to K180780.
7. Assay Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
B Comparison Studies:
K243543 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
1. Method Comparison with Predicate Device:
The method comparison study was performed at one external clinical site, using a total of
1384 patient capillary whole blood samples obtained during their regular anticoagulation
follow up. The study was conducted using a total of 8 microINR Meters and 8 microINR
Expert meters. Weighted Deming regression analysis was performed to assess the accuracy
of the microINR Expert meters against the predicate device microINR Meters. All results met
the pre-defined acceptance criteria.
Result Correlation Intercept Slope
N
Range Coefficient (r) (95% CI) (95% CI)
0.9 – 6.9 0.001 1.001
1384 0.987
(-0.028, 0.028) (0.985, 1.015)
2. Matrix Comparison:
Refer to K180780.
C Clinical Studies:
1. Clinical Sensitivity:
Not applicable
2. Clinical Specificity:
Not applicable
3. Other Clinical Supportive Data (When 1. and 2. Are Not Applicable):
Usability study
A usability study was conducted to demonstrate that the new functionalities of the microINR
Expert System can be used safely and effectively by potential intended users after
reading the labeling. Fifteen participants were enrolled in the study and performed the tasks
after reading the labeling. All participants were able to successfully perform all the tasks
(conduct a test, administrator identification, change meter settings and data consulting). The
participants also participated in a questionnaire to survey the usability of the microINR
System. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 is least favorable and 5 is most favorable, the mean
score was 4.81, indicating that microINR Expert Meter system was easy to use.
Additional testing on the modified device was conducted as follows: software verification
and validation; testing for radiofrequency, electromagnetic compatibility and electrical
safety; cybersecurity analysis and testing. All testing results met the pre-determined
acceptance criteria. Based on the testing, the microINR System including the microINR
K243543 - Page 7 of 8

[Table 1 on page 7]
N	Result
Range		Correlation			Intercept			Slope	
			Coefficient (r)			(95% CI)			(95% CI)	
1384	0.9 – 6.9	0.987			0.001
(-0.028, 0.028)			1.001
(0.985, 1.015)		

--- Page 8 ---
Expert Meter performs as intended, with no new questions of safety or effectiveness
identified during testing.
The risk analysis of the implemented changes concluded that the microINR System including
the microINR Expert Meter has no significant detectable risks compared to the predicate
device and all residual risks have been deemed acceptable.
D Clinical Cut-Off:
Not applicable.
E Expected Values/Reference Range:
Refer to K180780.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K243543 - Page 8 of 8