
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243935
B Applicant
Hologic, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Aptima CMV Quant Assay
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.3180 -
Quantitative
PAB Class II Cytomegalovirus Nucleic MI - Microbiology
Acid Tests For Transplant
Patient Management
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter's own
Class II device requiring a 510(k). The following items are present and acceptable:
1. The name and 510(K) number of the SUBMITTER’s previously approved device.
2. Submitter's statement that the INTENDED USE/INDICATIONS FOR USE of the
modified device as described in its labeling HAS NOT CHANGED along with the proposed
labeling which includes instructions for use, package labeling, and, if available,
advertisements or promotional materials (labeling changes are permitted as long as they do
not affect the intended use).
3. A description of the device MODIFICATIONS(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
engineering drawings, photographs, user's and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to
demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified
device has not changed. This change was for the use of proteinase K enzyme to treat plasma
samples with an ML2 flag (clog). Manual pretreatment of plasma specimens with proteinase
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
PAB			Class II	21 CFR 866.3180 -
Quantitative
Cytomegalovirus Nucleic
Acid Tests For Transplant
Patient Management			MI - Microbiology

--- Page 2 ---
K degrades proteins, preventing coagulation of specimens when exposed to alkaline shock,
resulting in valid assay results. Since the prevalence of plasma specimens that cause ML2
flags in the Aptima Assay at customer sites was calculated to be 0.54%, it is expected that the
use of the proteinase K protocol will be very limited since it will be used only with samples
that already had an ML2 flag invalid result.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter's legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter's description of the modification(s) and the comparative information between the
modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has not
changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in the new
special 510(k) paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially
equivalent to the previously cleared (or approved) device.
K243935 - Page 2 of 2