
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243405
B Applicant
Cepheid
C Proprietary and Established Names
Xpert vanA
D Regulatory Information
Product
Classification Regulation Section Panel
Code(s)
21 CFR 866.1640 – Antimicrobial Susceptibility
NIJ Class II MI – Microbiology
Test Powder
21 CFR 862.2570 – Instrumentation for clinical CH – Clinical
OOI Class II
multiplex test systems Chemistry
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter’s
(Cepheid) own CLASS II device requiring a 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INDICATIONS FOR USE/INTENDED USE of the modified
device as described in its labeling HAS CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which
includes instructions for use and package inserts. These labeling changes are considered minor
and do not affect the intended use of the original or modified device.
The changes in the Intended Use/Indications for Use statement of the modified device
(K243405) aim to:
(a) Incorporate the “GeneXpert Instrument Systems” family of instruments—in order to
accommodate a new member (the GeneXpert Infinity System) of this family—while
retaining other instruments in the same family, that were previously cleared with the
predicate (K092953).
(b) Remove the term “rapid” to better align with the assay’s time-to-result.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
	Code(s)				
NIJ			Class II	21 CFR 866.1640 – Antimicrobial Susceptibility
Test Powder	MI – Microbiology
OOI			Class II	21 CFR 862.2570 – Instrumentation for clinical
multiplex test systems	CH – Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
(c) Change the modified device name from “Cepheid Xpert vanA Assay” to “Xpert vanA”
in the Intended Use/Indications for Use opening statement.
(d) Describe the modified device as a “test” (which incorporates assay and instrument)
instead of as an “assay” as was previously done.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
photographs, user’s and service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not
changed.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
(a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
(b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification activities required,
including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the indication for
use/intended use for the device (i.e., detection of vanA) is unaffected by the modification. In
addition, the submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative
information between the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental
scientific technology has not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information
as specified in The New 510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined
substantially equivalent to the previously cleared device.
K243405 - Page 2 of 2