
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243070
B Applicant
Cepheid
C Proprietary and Established Names
Xpert SA Nasal Complete
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR §866.1640 – Antimicrobial
NQX Class II MI - Microbiology
Susceptibility Test Powder
21 CFR §862.2570 – Instrumentation for
OOI Class II CH - Clinical Chemistry
clinical multiplex test systems
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter’s
(Cepheid) own CLASS II device requiring a 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the submitter’s previously cleared device.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INTENDED USE/INDICATIONS FOR USE of the modified
device as described in its labeling HAS CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which
includes instructions for use and package labeling. These labeling changes are considered
minor and do not affect the intended use of the original or modified device.
The changes in the Intended Use/Indications for Use statement of the modified device
(K243070) aim to:
(a) Incorporate the “GeneXpert Instrument Systems” family of instruments, in order to
accommodate a new member (the GeneXpert Infinity Systems) of this family that also
encompasses the instruments that were originally cleared with the predicate (K100822).
(b) Remove the term “rapid” to better align with the assay’s time-to-result.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
NQX			Class II	21 CFR §866.1640 – Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Test Powder			MI - Microbiology
OOI			Class II	21 CFR §862.2570 – Instrumentation for
clinical multiplex test systems			CH - Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
(c) Change the device name from “Cepheid Xpert SA Nasal Complete Assay” to “Xpert SA
Nasal Complete” in the Intended Use/Indications for Use statement.
(d) Describe the modified device as a “test” (which incorporates assay and instrument)
instead of as an “assay” as was previously done.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
photographs, user’s and/or service manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not
changed.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification on
the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation activities
required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information between
the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has
not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The New
510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent
to the previously cleared device.
K243070 - Page 2 of 2