
--- Page 1 ---
SPECIAL 510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243625
B Applicant
Cepheid
C Proprietary and Established Names
Xpert MRSA/SA SSTI
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 866.1640
NQX Class II MI – Microbiology
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder
21 CFR 862.2570
OOI Class II CH – Clinical Chemistry
Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems
II Review Summary:
This 510(k) submission contains information/data on modifications made to the submitter’s (i.e.,
Cepheid’s) own CLASS II device requiring a 510(k). The following items are present and
acceptable.
1. The name and 510(k) number of the SUBMITTER’S previously cleared device.
2. Submitter’s statement that the INTENDED USE/INDICATIONS FOR USE of the modified
device as described in its labeling HAS CHANGED along with the proposed labeling which
includes instructions for use and package inserts. These labeling changes are considered minor
and do not affect the intended use of the original or modified device.
The changes in the Intended Use/Indications for Use statement of the modified device
(K243625) aim to:
(a) Incorporate by name the “GeneXpert Instrument Systems” family of instruments—in
order to accommodate a new member (the GeneXpert Infinity Systems) of this family
whose other members represent instruments that were previously cleared with the
predicate (K080837).
(b) Modify the device name from the previous “Cepheid Xpert MRSA/SA SSTI Assay” to
“Xpert MRSA/SA SSTI” in the Intended Use/Indications for Use statement.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
NQX			Class II	21 CFR 866.1640
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test Powder			MI – Microbiology
OOI			Class II	21 CFR 862.2570
Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test systems			CH – Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
(c) Describe the modified device as a “test” (which incorporates assay and instrument)
instead of as an “assay” as was previously done.
(d) Apply minor clarifying changes to the text of the Intended Use/Indications for Use
statement.
The changes in the labeling of the modified device (K243625) aim to provide the End
User/Customer with a set of updated operational documents, i.e., operator manual for the newly
added GeneXpert Infinity System instruments, updated user instructions for performing the
Xpert MRSA/SA SSTI test on new and existing instruments, and an updated assay definition
file containing assay specifics to be imported to the newly added instruments.
3. A description of the device MODIFICATION(S), including clearly labeled diagrams,
photographs, and user’s manuals in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the FUNDAMENTAL
SCIENTIFIC TECHNOLOGY of the modified device has not changed.
4. Comparison Information (i.e., similarities and differences) to the submitter’s legally marketed
predicate device including, labeling, intended use, and physical characteristics.
5. A Design Control Activities Summary which includes:
(a) Identification of Risk Analysis method(s) used to assess the impact of the modification
on the device and its components, and the results of the analysis.
(b) Based on the Risk Analysis, an identification of the verification and/or validation
activities required, including methods or tests used and acceptance criteria to be applied.
The labeling for this modified subject device has been reviewed to verify that the
indication/intended use for the device is unaffected by the modification. In addition, the
submitter’s description of the particular modification(s) and the comparative information between
the modified and unmodified devices demonstrate that the fundamental scientific technology has
not changed. The submitter has provided the design control information as specified in The New
510(k) Paradigm and on this basis, I recommend the device be determined substantially equivalent
to the previously cleared device.
K243625 - Page 2 of 2