
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
INSTRUMENT ONLY
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K243922
B Applicant
Meridian Bioscience, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Revogene
D Regulatory Information
Product Code(s) Classification Regulation Section Panel
21 CFR 862.2570 – Instrumentation For
OOI Class II CH – Clinical Chemistry
Clinical Multiplex Test Systems
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
1. To provide supportive data for hardware and software/firmware design modifications of the
Revogene instrument. The modifications are intended to enable the addition of a cooling
system for reducing the temperature around the instrument’s internal photomultiplier tube
(PMT) component, thereby preventing potential PMT malfunctions that may negatively impact
the instrument’s operation.
2. To obtain a determination of substantial equivalence for the modified Revogene instrument
relative to the previously cleared (K222779) design of the same Revogene instrument as
predicate.
B Type of Test:
Real time (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with fluorescence-based detection of target
analyte nucleic acids.
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
Product Code(s)	Classification	Regulation Section	Panel
OOI	Class II	21 CFR 862.2570 – Instrumentation For
Clinical Multiplex Test Systems	CH – Clinical Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
B Indication(s) for Use:
The Revogene instrument is intended for in vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in performing nucleic acid
testing of specific IVD assays in clinical laboratories. Revogene is capable of automated lysis and
dilution of samples originating from various clinical specimen types. Revogene performs
automated amplification and detection of target nucleic acid sequences by fluorescence-based real-
time PCR.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
Rx – For Prescription Use Only
IVD – For In Vitro Diagnostic Use Only
Running fewer than eight (8) samples (i.e., eight (8) assay PIEs) may require the use of MOCK
PIEs to fill up to eight (8) spaces for thermal and rotational balance in the Revogene
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
The Revogene instrument is a PCR thermal cycler equipped with components resembling a low-
speed centrifuge (e.g., rotor, centripetal motor) in addition to other mechanical and electrical
components that help perform the different steps of nucleic acid amplification-based diagnostic
tests. The instrument requires the use of an assay-specific, disposable, single-sample, single-use
microfluidic cartridge (also known as a PIE) identifiable with barcodes. A user-friendly
touchscreen allows the Operator to interact with the instrument for initiating sample runs and
performing other analytical and data management functions.
For the use of Revogene to conduct a cleared Revogene assay, the Operator first identifies the
sample, the assay-specific sample buffer tube/SBT (if applicable), and the PIE designated for the
sample by scanning respective barcodes with an external barcode scanner or via manual entry.
Next, the Operator discharges each patient specimen into the SBT, mixes and transfers the buffered
sample into the corresponding PIE, and loads the PIE into Revogene. An internal barcode reader
identifies the loaded PIEs to the instrument.
The PIE is a completely integrated device in which the dispensed sample is processed through a
series of microfluidic chambers. Within each assay-specific PIE, all PCR reagents are incorporated
in a dehydrated form within the PCR wells. In addition, in each PIE, DNA-based assays
incorporate a Process Control (PrC) to verify sample processing and amplification steps, whereas
RNA-based assays incorporate an Internal Control (IC) and a Microfluidic Control (MFC),
respectively, to verify RNA transcription/amplification/detection steps (including detection of
potential inhibitors and reagent failure) and to control for PIE fluidics. The Revogene instrument
is designed for fully automated sample processing along with subsequent PCR amplification and
detection of the target sequence using real-time PCR aided by target-specific primers and
fluorogenic probes.
With eight (8) spaces for PIEs, Revogene can simultaneously process 1–8 samples in the same run
provided the assays are either identical or different but using the same instrument control protocol.
However, each run requires eight (8) PIEs to be present in the instrument. For processing fewer
than eight (8) samples within a run, the total PIE number is brought up to eight (8) using MOCK
PIEs (catalog number 610208), which are reusable, PIE-simulating placeholders designed to
confer thermal and rotational balance in the centrifugation-assisted runs. MOCK PIEs contain
individual barcodes enabling recognition by Revogene over repeated uses.
K243922 - Page 2 of 8

--- Page 3 ---
An on-board computer with a Windows 10 IoT Enterprise operating system executes the
operational control of Revogene through subsystems that include, e.g., a photomultiplier tube
(PMT) detector for signal detection and an internal temperature control assembly. Revogene is a
mains-powered instrument with no electrical accessories, no rechargeable battery, no wireless
technology, and no intentional Radio Frequency (RF) emitters as hardware components.
For the PCR runs, temperature controllers provide required temperature cycling, whereas the LEDs
in the multichannel optical module excite the fluorescent dyes in all PIE wells and fluorescence
channels as the targets are progressively amplified by PCR. Revogene is capable of simultaneously
detecting signals from four (4) different fluorophores. At each detection cycle, the fluorescence
signals generated from the probes are captured and amplified by the PMT for interpretation by the
Revogene system using embedded calculation algorithms in accordance with the specific assay
run in each PIE. An Assay Definition File (ADF) ensures the use of assay-specific cut-offs by the
software algorithms for data analysis and the result generation. Of note, all functional components
for signal detection, analysis, and result output (e.g., software algorithm, instrument control
protocol, ADF) are developed, determined, and/or defined by Meridian Biosciences and are not
user-modifiable. Revogene is intended to be used in a professional healthcare facility environment
(e.g., clinical laboratories), operated by trained laboratory personnel.
At the end of the assay run, based on the amplification status of the targets, the status of PrC or of
IC/MFC (as appropriate, depending on the assay type), as well as assay cut-offs, Revogene may
return a result of (a) POS (Positive), when target is detected; (b) NEG (Negative), when target is
not detected; (c) UNR (Unresolved), or (d) IND (Indeterminate), when internal control failures
result from inhibitory specimens and/or failures of microfluidics or reagent, or errors in assay
processing or data analysis. Repeat testing is recommended for UNR and IND results. Further
details are available in the Revogene Operator’s Manual.
In comparison to the predicate (i.e., the previous iteration of Revogene that was previously cleared
under K222779), the current Revogene instrument (under review in K243922) introduces several
hardware modifications to mitigate the risk of PMT malfunction by addressing the root cause
behind fluorescence signal drops, thereby preventing instrument failures, and software/firmware
modifications to enable the operation of the modified hardware.
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Revogene
2. Specimen Identification:
Unique bar codes individually identify each specimen, Sample Buffer Tube (SBT), and
microfluidic cartridge (a.k.a. PIE) for sample processing. The individual bar codes are
registered into the Revogene System software via the Revogene external bar code reader. The
End User/Operator can either scan in or manually enter the sample ID via the Revogene
touchscreen.
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
User intervention is required for transferring the patient specimen into the SBT for initial
processing (e.g., sample mixing, as applicable), transferring the sample into a PIE, and
loading/unloading the PIEs into the instrument. The sample preparation and handling
procedure is described in further detail in Revogene Operator’s Manual and in the Package
Insert of each cleared Revogene assay.
K243922 - Page 3 of 8

--- Page 4 ---
4. Calibration:
Revogene does not require periodic calibration. However, the optical and thermal parameters
must be checked once a year to confirm that they are within specification by running
“Revogene Check” (Class 1 510(k) exempt device), which is a single-use, qualitative test
utilizing automated real-time PCR.
5. Quality Control:
No Quality Control is recommended for the Revogene. However, each PIE contains internal
process controls appropriate for the type of nucleic acid analyte. For example, for DNA assays,
an internal process control (PrC) controls for the inhibition of amplification and effectiveness
of assay reagents and sample processing. For RNA assays, an internal control (IC) controls for
the inhibition of amplification and effectiveness of assay reagents, whereas a microfluidic
control (MFC) monitors the effectiveness of sample processing.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Revogene
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K222779
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
Candidate device: K243922 Predicate: K222779
Device(s):
Device Trade Name Revogene Revogene
General Device Characteristic Similarities
OOI
Product Code -Same-
Real time nucleic acid amplification system
Classification Class II -Same-
21 CFR §862.2570
Regulation Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test -Same-
systems
The Revogene instrument is intended for in
vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in performing
nucleic acid testing of specific IVD assays in
clinical laboratories. Revogene is capable of
Intended Use/ automated lysis and dilution of samples
-Same-
Indications For Use originating from various clinical specimen
types. Revogene performs automated
amplification and detection of target nucleic
acid sequences by fluorescence-based real-
time PCR
Automated cell lysis, DNA amplification and
Test Automation -Same-
DNA detection with result interpretation
K243922 - Page 4 of 8

[Table 1 on page 4]
	Device & Predicate		Candidate device: K243922	Predicate: K222779	
	Device(s):				
Device Trade Name			Revogene	Revogene	
	General Device Characteristic Similarities				
Product Code			OOI
Real time nucleic acid amplification system	-Same-	
Classification			Class II	-Same-	
Regulation			21 CFR §862.2570
Instrumentation for clinical multiplex test
systems	-Same-	
Intended Use/
Indications For Use			The Revogene instrument is intended for in
vitro diagnostic (IVD) use in performing
nucleic acid testing of specific IVD assays in
clinical laboratories. Revogene is capable of
automated lysis and dilution of samples
originating from various clinical specimen
types. Revogene performs automated
amplification and detection of target nucleic
acid sequences by fluorescence-based real-
time PCR	-Same-	
Test Automation			Automated cell lysis, DNA amplification and
DNA detection with result interpretation	-Same-	

--- Page 5 ---
Device & Predicate
Candidate device: K243922 Predicate: K222779
Device(s):
Test Technology/ Real-time Polymerase chain reaction with
-Same-
Detection Technique fluorogenic detection of amplified DNA
Combination of software, instrument control
Sample analysis and
protocols and assay definition files developed -Same-
result determination
and determined by Meridian
Disposable, single-use, single-sample, assay-
specific microfluidic cartridge (also known as
Test Format -Same-
“PIE”); up to eight (8) specimens (in eight (8)
PIEs) may be processed and analyzed per run
Each PIE contains an Internal Process Control
Internal Process
(PrC) that controls for amplification inhibition,
Control for DNA -Same-
assay reagents, and sample processing
assays
effectiveness
Each PIE contains an Internal Control (IC) that
Internal Process controls for amplification inhibition, assay
Control for RNA reagents, and sample processing effectiveness; -Same-
assays sample processing is monitored by a
Microfluidic Control (MFC)
Heating element/fan assembly and cooling fan
Temperature Control -Same-
for PCR cycling
Test Access Prescription Use Only -Same-
General Device Characteristic Differences
Windows Embedded
Operating System Windows 10 IoT Enterprise (Windows 10) Standard 7 (Windows
7)
Photomultiplier Tube (PMT) cooling system
Additional (an assembly of fan and venting canal) with No PMT cooling
Temperature Control updated firmware to enable cooling system system
operation
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex Test Systems – Class II Special Controls Guidance for
Industry and FDA Staff | FDA
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility and Repeatability:
Studies evaluating the precision of the Revogene instrument were previously conducted to
support the clearance or authorization of several molecular assays targeting specific analytes
that were previously cleared/authorized for use on the Revogene instrument, e.g.,
(a) K170557 (GenePOC GBS LB, later renamed Revogene GBS LB)
(b) K172569 (GenePOC CDiff, later renamed Revogene C. difficile)
K243922 - Page 5 of 8

[Table 1 on page 5]
	Device & Predicate		Candidate device: K243922	Predicate: K222779	
	Device(s):				
Test Technology/
Detection Technique			Real-time Polymerase chain reaction with
fluorogenic detection of amplified DNA	-Same-	
Sample analysis and
result determination			Combination of software, instrument control
protocols and assay definition files developed
and determined by Meridian	-Same-	
Test Format			Disposable, single-use, single-sample, assay-
specific microfluidic cartridge (also known as
“PIE”); up to eight (8) specimens (in eight (8)
PIEs) may be processed and analyzed per run	-Same-	
Internal Process
Control for DNA
assays			Each PIE contains an Internal Process Control
(PrC) that controls for amplification inhibition,
assay reagents, and sample processing
effectiveness	-Same-	
Internal Process
Control for RNA
assays			Each PIE contains an Internal Control (IC) that
controls for amplification inhibition, assay
reagents, and sample processing effectiveness;
sample processing is monitored by a
Microfluidic Control (MFC)	-Same-	
Temperature Control			Heating element/fan assembly and cooling fan
for PCR cycling	-Same-	
Test Access			Prescription Use Only	-Same-	
	General Device Characteristic Differences				
Operating System			Windows 10 IoT Enterprise (Windows 10)	Windows Embedded
Standard 7 (Windows
7)	
Additional
Temperature Control			Photomultiplier Tube (PMT) cooling system
(an assembly of fan and venting canal) with
updated firmware to enable cooling system
operation	No PMT cooling
system	

--- Page 6 ---
(c) K183366 (GenePOC Strep A, later renamed Revogene Strep A)
(d) K190275 (GenePOC Carba, later renamed Revogene Carba C) and
(e) EUA210450 (Revogene SARS-CoV-2).
Further information on the precision of the unmodified Revogene instrument may be obtained
from the decision summaries or authorization letter corresponding to these cleared or
authorized devices.
Furthermore, the sponsor conducted a head-to-head method comparison study between the
candidate Revogene device (with the PMT cooling system hardware and software/firmware
modifications) and the unmodified predicate in accordance with Section 7 of FDA’s Class II
Special Controls Guidance for Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex Systems, using three (3)
representative, previously cleared Revogene assays that are performed on the Revogene
instrument—namely, Revogene Strep A (K183366), Revogene Carba C (K190275), and
Revogene SARS-CoV-2 (EUA210450). These studies (discussed in more detail in Section
VII.B below) demonstrated statistical equivalence between the unmodified predicate and the
modified candidate instrument, with no statistically significant difference between the results
obtained from these two (2) sets of instruments, thereby providing the empirical rationale
supporting an assumption of no change of precision of the molecular assay devices when run
on the candidate Revogene instrument.
2. Linearity:
Not applicable.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Analytical specificity/interference of molecular assay devices targeting specific analytes (as
indicated in Section VII.A.1 above), when performed on the Revogene instrument, was
previously evaluated in studies conducted to support the clearance or authorization of the
indicated devices, as noted above. Further information on the analytical specificity of these
devices with the unmodified Revogene instrument may be obtained from the decision
summaries or authorization letter corresponding to these cleared or authorized devices.
Furthermore, in the head-to-head method comparison study noted in Section VII.A.1 above,
the sponsor demonstrated statistical equivalence between the unmodified predicate and the
modified candidate device, thereby providing the empirical rationale supporting an assumption
of no change of analytical specificity/interference of the molecular assay devices when run on
the candidate Revogene instrument.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable.
5. Carry-Over and Cross-contamination:
The disposable, single-specimen, single-use cartridges (i.e., PIEs) are expected to minimize
the possibility of amplicon carry-over or sample cross-contamination. Carry-over and cross
contamination for the molecular assay devices targeting specific analytes (as indicated in
Section VII.A.1 above), when performed on the Revogene instrument, was previously
evaluated in studies conducted to support the clearance or authorization of the indicated
devices, as noted above. Further information on carry-over and cross contamination for these
devices with the unmodified Revogene instrument may be obtained from the decision
summaries or authorization letter corresponding to these cleared or authorized devices.
K243922 - Page 6 of 8

--- Page 7 ---
Furthermore, in the head-to-head method comparison study noted in Section VII.A.1 above,
the sponsor demonstrated statistical equivalence between the unmodified predicate and the
modified candidate device, thereby providing the empirical rationale supporting an absence of
the carry-over and cross-contamination for the molecular assay devices when run on the
candidate Revogene instrument.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
Brief Background for Instrument Performance Studies:
The candidate Revogene instrument (K243922) represents an iteration of the previously cleared
(K222779) and commercially available Revogene, upon which this iteration implements certain
hardware, software, and firmware modifications that are designed to reduce potential issues in
performance and instrument operation. The modifications in the current candidate Revogene
feature a cooling system for the PMT (intended to prevent temperature-related drops in raw
fluorescent signals that may result in instrument failure) and an Operating System upgrade, as
compared to the previously cleared (K222779) Revogene, i.e., the predicate.
Therefore, to provide empirical evidence in support of a claim that these modifications in the
candidate Revogene instrument do not negatively impact the performance of assays on Revogene,
Meridian conducted a head-to-head method comparison/functional testing study between the
candidate Revogene instrument and the predicate, respectively with and without the indicated
modifications, using three (3) previously cleared Revogene assays currently on the US market, i.e.,
Revogene Strep A (K183366), Revogene Carba C (K190275), and Revogene SARS-CoV-2
(EUA210450), each representative of one (1) instrument control protocol. Performed in
accordance with the principle laid out in Section 7 of FDA’s Class II Special Controls Guidance
on Instrumentation for Clinical Multiplex Test Systems, the objective of these head-to-head
comparison studies was to demonstrate statistical equivalence between the candidate and predicate
Revogene instruments with no statistically significant difference between the assay results
obtained from either Revogene.
Head-to-head Revogene comparison studies:
Fifteen (15) commercial Revogene instruments (K222779) were compared with fifteen (15)
candidate Revogene with PMT cooling system and software modifications (K243922) by three (3)
different operators, each of whom was assigned five (5) instruments of each type and executed
three (3) runs (for Strep A and SARS-CoV-2) or six (6) runs (for Carba C), on each assigned
instrument. To reach a total of 360 positive and 360 negative results, each Strep A and SARS-
CoV-2 assay run included four (4) positive and four (4) negative samples, whereas each Carba C
assay run included two (2) each of blaKPC positive, blaIMP positive, and negative samples. The
study was conducted on three (3) days (for Strep A and SARS-CoV-2) or six (6) days (for Carba
C), with two (2) reagent lots distributed equally over both Revogene instruments and operators.
External controls (positive and negative) were incorporated in the study design to test at the end
of each study day to ensure absence of reagent failure and reagent or environmental
contamination/carry over. Unexpected or anomalous results (e.g., unresolved (UNR),
indeterminate (IND), falsely positive or negative results) triggered a root cause identification, and
only the anomalous results identified to be unrelated to the Revogene instrument design were
considered eligible for repeat testing. Upon repeat testing, samples generating reportable results
were considered for statistical analysis, whereas final UNR, IND, and falsely positive or negative
results were included only in qualitative analysis (i.e., calculation of the positivity, negativity, and
UNR/IND rates).
K243922 - Page 7 of 8

--- Page 8 ---
Acceptance criteria were defined in terms of statistical evaluation of difference in outcomes
between the candidate and predicate Revogene instrument sets, for which the rates of positivity
(for positive samples), negativity (for negative samples), final UNR and IND results should have
a p>0.05 (i.e., no statistical significance of difference) as estimated with two-proportion
comparison tests. Further, statistical equivalence of the performance of candidate and predicate
Revogene instruments should be verified by performing a TOST (Two One-Sided Test) for
equivalence with a significance level of 5% (α = 0.05), 90% Confidence Interval, and final mean
Ct values between the candidate and predicate Revogene sets to be within a margin of ±3 Ct (which
generates a p<0.05 signifying statistical equivalence). Furthermore, no anomalies related to the
control firmware v2.3.0 should be observed.
1. Revogene Strep A (K183366) using contrived specimen prepared by spiking pooled negative
throat matrix with Bacillus subtilis DNA to serve as an internal process control (PrC, negative
sample target) without or with Group A Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS, positive sample target)
and tested in a PCR.
2. Revogene SARS-CoV-2 (EUA210450) using contrived specimen prepared by spiking pooled
negative nasopharyngeal matrix with SARS-CoV-2 to serve as positive sample target, along
with a synthetic RNA fragment within the assay master mix to serve as an internal control (IC,
negative sample target) for the reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR.
3. Revogene CARBA C (K190275) using contrived samples prepared in sterile saline with target-
appropriate bacterial suspensions, i.e., Klebsiella pneumoniae (for blaKPC-2 gene target) and
Escherichia coli (for blaIMP-1 gene target) for positive sample targets and carbapenemase-
negative Enterobacter cloacae along with an internal Process Control (PrC) DNA contained
within the assay reagents for the negative sample target and tested in a PCR.
Conclusion: All acceptance criteria were met for these three (3) validation studies. Therefore,
based on the provided analytical studies, the integration of the PMT cooling system (including the
EMC modifications and software/firmware updates) and the Operating System upgrade appear to
have no impact on the performance of the Revogene Instrument system when used with Revogene
Strep A, Revogene SARS-CoV-2, Revogene CARBA C assays, as well as other Revogene assays
performed under the same instrument control protocols, as applicable.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K243922 - Page 8 of 8