
--- Page 1 ---
510(k) SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE DETERMINATION
DECISION SUMMARY
ASSAY AND INSTRUMENT
I Background Information:
A 510(k) Number
K250106
B Applicant
Signos, Inc.
C Proprietary and Established Names
Signos Glucose Monitoring System
D Regulatory Information
Product Regulation
Classification Panel
Code(s) Section
21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous CH - Clinical
SAF Class II
Glucose Monitoring Chemistry
System
II Submission/Device Overview:
A Purpose for Submission:
New device
B Type of Test:
Quantitative, amperometric assay (Glucose Oxidase)
III Intended Use/Indications for Use:
A Intended Use(s):
See Indications for Use below.
Food and Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue
Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002
www.fda.gov

[Table 1 on page 1]
	Product		Classification		Regulation		Panel
	Code(s)				Section		
SAF			Class II	21 CFR 862.1355 -
Integrated Continuous
Glucose Monitoring
System			CH - Clinical
Chemistry

--- Page 2 ---
B Indication(s) for Use:
The Signos Glucose Monitoring System is an over-the-counter (OTC) mobile device application
that receives data from an integrated Continuous Glucose Monitor (iCGM) sensor and is
intended to continuously measure, record, analyze, and display glucose values in people 18 years
and older not on insulin. The Signos System helps to identify normal (euglycemic) and low or
high (dysglycemic) glucose levels. The Signos System may also help the user better understand
how lifestyle and behavior modification, including diet and exercise, impact glucose excursions.
This information may be useful in helping users to maintain a healthy weight.
The user is not intended to take medical action based on the device output without consultation
with a qualified healthcare professional.
C Special Conditions for Use Statement(s):
OTC - Over The Counter
IV Device/System Characteristics:
A Device Description:
Signos Glucose Monitoring System is a mobile device application that receives data from the
Dexcom Stelo Biosensor iCGM and used to help people better understand their impact on their
glucose results and how those glucose results impact other areas of their health.
The Signos Glucose Monitoring System consists of the smartphone application (on iOS or
Android) and is paired with the Dexcom Stelo Glucose Biosensor System (distributed by Signos,
Inc. upon payment and activation of the Signos Glucose Monitoring System). The application is
obtained by downloading it from an App-Store (e.g. Google Play or Apple Store) and then
activated by account setup with Signos, Inc.
Once activated, the Signos Glucose Monitoring System application functions as a primary
display for a paired, off-the-shelf, Dexcom Stelo iCGM (K234070) by showing the user’s
glucose reading along with a historic trend. The Signos Glucose Monitoring System is not
intended to be used by people on insulin.
The Signos Glucose Monitoring System includes several algorithms that analyze glucose values.
These algorithms are variously intended to help identify euglycemic and dysglycemic glucose
levels, and to help users better understand how lifestyle and behavior modification, including
diet and exercise, impact glucose excursions. These algorithms are not intended to aid in the
management of any disease.
B Instrument Description Information:
1. Instrument Name:
Signos Glucose Monitoring System
2. Specimen Identification:
K250106 - Page 2 of 5

--- Page 3 ---
Not applicable
3. Specimen Sampling and Handling:
Not applicable
4. Calibration:
Not applicable to subject device. The Stelo Glucose Biosensor System (K234070) is factory
calibrated.
5. Quality Control:
Not applicable
This medical device product has functions subject to FDA premarket review as well as functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review. For this application, if the product has functions
that are not subject to FDA premarket review, FDA assessed those functions only to the extent
that they either could adversely impact the safety and effectiveness of the functions subject to
FDA premarket review or they are included as a labeled positive impact that was considered in
the assessment of the functions subject to FDA premarket review.
V Substantial Equivalence Information:
A Predicate Device Name(s):
Stelo Glucose Biosensor System
B Predicate 510(k) Number(s):
K234070
C Comparison with Predicate(s):
Device & Predicate
K250106 K234070
Device(s):
Signos Glucose Stelo Glucose
Device Trade Name
Monitoring System Biosensor System
General Device
Characteristic Similarities
Use Setting Home use Same
Persons who are not on
Intended Use Population insulin therapy age 18 Same
years and older
Type of Use Over-the-counter use Same
Displayed Range 70-250 mg/dL Same
K250106 - Page 3 of 5

[Table 1 on page 3]
	Device & Predicate		K250106	K234070
	Device(s):			
Device Trade Name			Signos Glucose
Monitoring System	Stelo Glucose
Biosensor System
	General Device			
	Characteristic Similarities			
Use Setting			Home use	Same
Intended Use Population			Persons who are not on
insulin therapy age 18
years and older	Same
Type of Use			Over-the-counter use	Same
Displayed Range			70-250 mg/dL	Same

--- Page 4 ---
Display Device Update
Every 15 minutes Same
Interval
Glucose Alerts and Alarms None Same
General Device
Characteristic Differences
Not included in
clearance. Uses same
Sensor Included in clearance.
sensor as cleared in
predicate
Mobile device
application displaying
Mobile device data and biosensor:
application displaying Amperometric
data measurement of current
Principle of Operation
proportional to glucose
Uses same sensor as concentration in
cleared in predicate. interstitial fluid via
glucose oxidase
chemical reaction
VI Standards/Guidance Documents Referenced:
None
VII Performance Characteristics (if/when applicable):
A Analytical Performance:
1. Precision/Reproducibility:
Previously established in K234070.
2. Linearity:
Previously established in K234070.
3. Analytical Specificity/Interference:
Previously established in K234070.
4. Accuracy (Instrument):
Not applicable.
5. Carry-Over:
K250106 - Page 4 of 5

[Table 1 on page 4]
Display Device Update
Interval			Every 15 minutes	Same
Glucose Alerts and Alarms			None	Same
	General Device			
	Characteristic Differences			
Sensor			Not included in
clearance. Uses same
sensor as cleared in
predicate	Included in clearance.
Principle of Operation			Mobile device
application displaying
data
Uses same sensor as
cleared in predicate.	Mobile device
application displaying
data and biosensor:
Amperometric
measurement of current
proportional to glucose
concentration in
interstitial fluid via
glucose oxidase
chemical reaction

--- Page 5 ---
Not Applicable.
B Other Supportive Instrument Performance Characteristics Data:
The following supportive performance characteristics were verified or validated through studies
conducted on the subject device.
Human Factors
Eighteen participants enrolled in the study. Before entering the study session, participants
completed a Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ). Fifteen of eighteen participants correctly
self-selected as intended users. Participants representing intended users of the Product completed
in-App onboarding, set-up the biosensor and paired it, logged meal and exercise information, and
reviewed various App screens and answered questions about them.
Software Verification and Validation
Software verification and validation testing was conducted in accordance with established
specifications and IEC 62304 and documentation was provided as recommended by FDA
Guidance “Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Device Software Functions,”
June 14, 2023. The test results for the Signos Glucose Monitoring System met acceptance criteria
and are acceptable for their intended use.
Cybersecurity
Signos has provided cybersecurity risk management documentation for the Signos Glucose
Monitoring System that includes analysis of confidentiality, integrity, and availability for data,
information and software related to the Signos Glucose Monitoring System in accordance with
the FDA Guidance Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and
Content of Premarket Submissions” (September 27, 2023). For each identified threat and
vulnerability risk event scenario, risk assessment of impact to confidentiality, integrity, and
availability was performed and documented within the cybersecurity risk management
documentation. Appropriate risk mitigation controls have been implemented and tested. In
addition, Signos has controls and processes in place to ensure continued support for keeping the
device secure and to ensure that the device firmware, software and components are malware free.
VIII Proposed Labeling:
The labeling supports the finding of substantial equivalence for this device.
IX Conclusion:
The submitted information in this premarket notification is complete and supports a substantial
equivalence decision.
K250106 - Page 5 of 5