Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)
Cryptococcus Antigen Titer, Lateral Flow Assay, Pleural Fluid
1. PURPOSE To provide a standardized procedure for performing the
Cryptococcus Antigen (CrAg) Titer test using the Lateral Flow Assay
(LFA) on pleural fluid specimens. The purpose of this test is to detect
the presence of Cryptococcus antigens within pleural fluid samples to
aid in the diagnosis of cryptococcal infection.
2. SCOPE This procedure applies to all trained personnel performing
Cryptococcus Antigen Titer tests in the medical laboratory.
3. RESPONSIBILITY All designated laboratory staff are responsible
for performing and documenting this procedure accurately. It is the
responsibility of the laboratory supervisor to ensure all personnel are
trained and competent in performing the assay.
4. SPECIMEN REQUIREMENTS
• Specimen Type: Pleural fluid
• Specimen Collection:
◦ Use a sterile container for collection.
◦ Minimum volume: 1 mL of pleural fluid.
◦ Transport to the laboratory at room temperature (20-26°C)
within 6 hours of collection.
◦ If immediate testing is not possible, pleural fluid specimens
may be refrigerated at 2-8°C for up to 24 hours.
5. EQUIPMENT AND REAGENTS
• Cryptococcus Antigen Lateral Flow Assay kit
• Timer
• Microcentrifuge tubes
• Pipettes and tips (2-200 µL capacity)
• Sterile saline or distilled water
• Personal protective equipment (PPE): laboratory coat, gloves,
protective eyewear
6. PROCEDURE
6.1 Preparation
1. Wear appropriate PPE.
2. Bring the LFA test kit to room temperature.
3. Verify the expiration date on the LFA test kit. Do not use expired
reagents.
6.2 Specimen Processing
1. Invert the pleural fluid specimen container to mix thoroughly
before aliquoting.
2. Transfer 100 µL of pleural fluid into a labeled microcentrifuge
tube.
6.3 Procedure Steps
1. Reagent Preparation:
◦ Add 100 µL of sterile saline or distilled water to the
microcentrifuge tube containing the pleural fluid to achieve a
1:1 dilution.
2. LFA Test Preparation:
◦ Open the LFA test kit and label the test cassette.
3. Sample Application:
◦ Pipette 80 µL of the diluted pleural fluid onto the sample well
of the LFA test cassette.
4. Timing:
◦ Begin timing immediately using a timer.
5. Incubation:
◦ Allow the test to incubate at room temperature for 10
minutes.
6. Reading Results:
◦ Read the results after 10 minutes. Do not interpret results
after 15 minutes as this can lead to erroneous readings.
6.4 Interpretation of Results
• Positive Result:
◦ The appearance of two lines: one in the control (C) area and
one in the test (T) area.
• Negative Result:
◦ The appearance of only one line in the control (C) area.
• Invalid Result:
◦ No lines or only one line in the test (T) area. Repeat the test
with a new LFA device.
6.5 Documentation
• Record the results in the laboratory information system (LIS)
clearly stating "Cryptococcus Antigen Titer, Pleural Fluid."
• If a positive result is observed, refer to the titering procedure for
quantification.
6.6 Titering Procedure (if positive)
1. Prepare serial dilutions of the sample (1:2, 1:4, 1:8, etc.) using
sterile saline.
2. Repeat the LFA with each dilution per the steps in section 6.3.
3. Record the highest dilution at which the test remains positive as
the titer.
7. QUALITY CONTROL
• Perform quality control with each new lot of LFA test kits. Utilize
positive and negative control samples to verify test performance.
• Document all quality control results. If quality control fails, do not
use the kit and notify the supervisor.
8. REFERENCE INTERVALS
• Negative: No cryptococcal antigens detected.
• Positive: Cryptococcal antigens present; titer will be reported.
9. REPORTING RESULTS
• Results are to be entered into the LIS and verified by the
technologist.
• Positive results should be communicated to the attending
physician as per laboratory policy.
10. METHOD LIMITATIONS
• This assay is designed for the detection of cryptococcal antigens.
It is not intended to determine the viability of the Cryptococcus
organism.
• False positives may occur due to cross-reactivity with other fungal
antigens.
11. REFERENCES
• Manufacturer’s instructions for the Cryptococcus Antigen Lateral
Flow Assay kit.
• Current clinical guidelines and literature on cryptococcal infection
and antigen testing.
12. DOCUMENTATION
• Ensure all records are maintained as per laboratory and
regulatory requirements for traceability and review.