  R/Ö500aG

  JAN 3 •ul

  510(k) Summary — C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for Automated

  Systems) PUC (Proteins in Urine/CSF); Precinorm @ PUC and Precipath @ PUC

  Introduction According to the requirements of 21 CFR 807.92, the following information provides sufficient detail to understand the basis for a determination of substantial equivalence

    Submitter       Roche Diagnostics                 
                                                      
    name, address,  91 15 Hague Rd                    
                                                      
                    Indianapolis IN 46250             
                                                      
                    (317) 521-3723                    
    contact                                           
                    Contact person: Theresa M. Ambrose
                                                      
                    Date prepared: January 5, 2005    
                                                      
    

    Device 1 Name Proprietary name: Roche Diagnostics C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for automated systems) PUC (Proteins in Urine/CSF)

    Common name: C.f.a.s. PUC

    Classification name: Calibrator, multi-analyte mixture

    Device 2 Name Proprietary name: Roche Diagnostics Precinorm @ PUC (Proteins In

    Urine/CSF) and Precipath @ PUC (Proteins in Urine/CSF

    Common name: Precinorm @ PUC / Precipath@ PUC

    Classification name: Multi-analyte controls, all kinds (assayed and unassayed)

    Continued on next page

    Modifirntinn fa PI PI JC

      Device 2 description  Precinorm @ PUC/ Precipath PUC is a liquid ready-for-use control based on a buffered aqueous solution. Concentrations of control components have been adjusted to represent normal and pathological ranges. Values for constituent analytes are provided in the product labeling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
      
        Device 1      C.f.a.s. PUC is for use in the calibration of quantitative Roche methods on 
        Intended use  Roche clinical chemistry analyzers as specified in the enclosed value sheet.
        
          Device 2      Precinorm @ PUC/ Precipath PUC is for use in quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed value sheet
          Intended use                                                                                                                                                                         
          
            Device 1     For C.f.a.s. PUC, Roche claims substantial equivalence to the currently
                                                                                                
            Substantial                                                                         
                         marketed currently marketed C.f.a.s. PUC, K040264.                     
            Equivalence                                                                         
                                                                                                
            
              Substantial                        The table below compares C.f.a.s. PUC with its predicate device (currently
                                                                                                                           
              equivalence comparison — Device 1  marketed C.f.a.s. PUC, K040264).                                          
                                                                                                                           
              

              I)evice I C.f.a.s. PAC is a liquid, ready-for-use calibrator consisting of a buffered description aqueous solution with biological matefials added as required to obtain desired component levels. Values for constituent analytes are provided in the product labeling.

              Continued on

              next page

              Sl O(k) PUC;

                Characteristic             C.f.a.s. PUC (Predicate device, K040264)                                                                                                                                                                                                  C.f.a.s. PUC (Modified Device)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                Intended Use               C.f.a.s. PUC is for use in the calibration of quantitative Roche methods on Roche clinical chemistry analyzers as specified in the enclosed value sheet.                                                                                  Same                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                Format                     Liquid ready-for-use calibrator based on a buffered aqueous solution. The concentrations of the calibrator components have been adjusted to ensure optimal calibration of the appropriate Roche methods on clinical chemistry analyzers.  Same                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                           Unopened                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                           Stable at 2-8 ⁰C until expiration date                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                Stability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Same                          
                                           Opened:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                           Stable at 2 to 8 ⁰C for 4 weeks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                Level                      Single level                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Same                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                Constituent Analytes with  • Albumin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Albumin                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       * Total protein             
                Assigned Values            Total protein                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Immunoglobulin G          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                
                  Device 2     For Precinom @ PUC and Precipath @ PUC, Roche claims substantial equivalence to the currently marketed Roche Diagnostics Precinorm @ PUC and Precipath @ PUC (K041812).
                  Substantial                                                                                                                                                                         
                  Equivalence                                                                                                                                                                         
                  
                    Substantial                      The table below compares Precinorm @ PUC / Precipath@ PUC with the     
                                                                                                                            
                    Equivalence — Device comparison  predicate device (currently marketed Precinorm @ PUC / Precipath@ PUC).
                                                                                                                            
                    

                    Continued on next page

                    S IO(k) PUC•,

                      Characteristic                             Precinorm @ PUC / Precipath@                                                                                                           Precinorm @ PUC /               
                                                                 PUC (Predicate device, K040264)                                                                                                        Precipath@ PUC (Modified Device)
                      Intended Use                               For use in quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as s ecified in the enclosed value sheet  Same                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                 Liquid ready-for-use control based on a buffered aqueous solution.                                                                                                     
                      Format                                                                                                                                                                            Same                            
                                                                 Concentrations of control components have been adjusted to represent normal and pathological ran es.                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                 Unopened                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                      Stability                                  Stable at 2-8⁰C until expiration date Opened:                                                                                          Same                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                 Stable at 2 to 8⁰C for 4 weeks                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Precinorm                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                 Precinorm                                                                                                                                * Albumin                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                   * Albumin                                                                                                                            Creatinine                      
                                                                   * Creatinine                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                   * Total Protein                                                                                                                        * Total Protein               
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Immunoglobulin G            
                                                                 Precipath                                                                                                                                                              
                      Constituent Analytes with Assigned Values                                                                                                                                         Precipath                       
                                                                   * Albumin                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Albumin                         
                                                                 Creatinine                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Creatinine                  
                                                                   * Total Protein                                                                                                                        * Total Protein               
                                                                   * Immunoglobulin A                                                                                                                     * Immunoglobulin A            
                                                                   * Immunoglobulin M                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ' Immunoglobulin M              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Immuno lobulin G            
                      

                      Roche Diagnostics: 510(k) PUC•,

                      Note:

                      Page 31 is a duplicate of Page 30.

                      510(k) Summary, continued

                        Characteristic                                                                                                                         
                        Precinorm @ PUC / Precipath@                                                                                                             PUC (Predicate device, 1<040264)  Precipath@ PUC (Modified Device)          Concentrations of control components have been adjusted to represent normal and pathological ran es.      Stable at 2-8 ⁰C until expiration date Opened:      Creatinine  Creatinine        
                        PUC (Predicate device, 1<040264)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Stable at 2 to 8⁰C for 4 weeks                      Precipath   ' Total Protein   
                        Precinorm @ PUC /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Precipath         
                        Precipath@ PUC (Modified Device)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Albumin           
                        Intended Use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Immuno lobulin-G  
                        For use in quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as s ecified in the enclosed value sheet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                        Same                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                        Format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                        Liquid ready-for-use control based on a buffered aqueous solution.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                        Concentrations of control components have been adjusted to represent normal and pathological ran es.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                        Same                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                        Stability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                        Unopened                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                        Stable at 2-8 ⁰C until expiration date Opened:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                        Stable at 2 to 8⁰C for 4 weeks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                        Same                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                        Constituent Analytes with Assigned Values                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                        Precinorm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                        Creatinine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                        Precipath                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                        Precinorrn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                        Creatinine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                        ' Total Protein                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                        Precipath                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                        Albumin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                        Immuno lobulin-G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                        

                        Roche Diagnostics: 5 1 0(k) PUC;

                        DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES

                        Food and Drug Administration

                        2098 Gaither Road

                        Rockville MD 20850

                        Theresa M. Ambrose, PhD, RAC

                        JAN 3 1 2005

                        Regulatory Affairs Principal

                        Roche Diagnostics

                        91 15 Hague Road

                        PO Box 50457

                        Indianapolis, IN 46250

                        1<050026

                        Trade/Device Name: C.f.a.s (Calibrator for Automated Systems) Proteins in Urine/CSF (PUC)

                        Precinom@ Proteins in Urine/CSF (PUC) and Precipath @ PUC

                        Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.1150

                        Regulation Name: Calibrator

                        Regulatory Class: Class Il

                        Product Code: JIX, JJY

                        Dated: January 5, 2005

                        Received: January 6, 2005

                        Dear Dr. Ambrose:

                        We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls provisions of the Act. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration, listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and adulteration.

                        If your device is classified (see above) into either class Il (Special Controls) or class Ill (PMA), it may be subject to such additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 800 to 895. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements concerning your device in the Federal Register.

                        Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Parts 801 and 809); and good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820).

                        Page 2

                        This letter will allow you to begin marketing your device as described in your Section 51 premarket notification. The FDA finding of substantial equivalence of your device to a legally marketed predicate device results in a classification for your device and thus, permits your device to proceed to the market.

                        If you desire specific information about the application of labeling requirements to your device, or questions on the promotion and advertising of your device, please contact the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety at (240)276-0484. Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part 807.97). You may obtain other general information on your responsibilities under the Act from the Division of Small Manufacturers, International and Consumer Assistance at its toll-free number (800) 638-2041 or (301) 443-6597 or at its Internet address http://www.fda.gov/cdrh/industry/support/index.html

                        Sincerely yours,

                        -Jean M. Cooper, MS, D.V.M.

                        Director

                        Division of Chemistry and Toxicology

                        Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety

                        Center for Devices and Radiological Health

                        Enclosure

                        Indications for Use

                        510(k) Number (if known): K0500ac

                        Device Name: Precinorm @ Proteins in Urine/CSF (PUC) and Precipath @ PUC

                        Indications For Use:

                        Precinorm @ PUC (Proteins in Urine/CSF) is for use in quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed value sheet. Precipath @ PUC (Proteins in Urine/CSF) is for use in quality control by monitoring accuracy and precision for the quantitative methods as specified in the enclosed value sheet.

                        Prescription Use X AND/OR Over-The-Counter Use

                        (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) (21 CFR 807 Subpart C)

                        (PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE-CONTINUE ON ANOTHER PAGE IF NEEDED)

                        Concurrence of CDRH, Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices (01 V D)

                        Page I of

                        _

                        Indications for Use

                        5 10(k) Number (if known): K 0500

                        Device Name: C.f.a.s. (Calibrator for Automated Systems) Proteins in Urine/CSF (PUC)

                        Indications For Use:

                        C.f.a.s. PUC is för use in the calibration of quantitative Roche methods on Roche clinical chemistry analyzers as specified in the enclosed value sheet.

                        Prescription Use X AND/OR Over-The-Counter Use

                        (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) (21 CFR 807 Subpart C)

                        (PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINFrCONTINUE ON ANOTHER PAGE IF NEEDED)

                        Concurrence of CDRH, Office of in Vitro Diagnostic Devices (OIVD)

                        Page I of

                          Office of In Vitro Diagnostic  
                          Device Evaluation and Safety   
                          

                          24
