  10. 510(k) SUMMARY

  This summary of safety and effectiveness information is being submitted in accordance with the requirements of SMDA 1990 and 21 CFR 807.92.

  The Assigned 5 10(k) number is

  Submitter:

  ACON Laboratories, Inc.

  4108 Sorrento Valley Boulevard

  San Diego, California 92121

  Tel.: 858-535-2030 Fax: 858-535-2038

  Date:

  January 7, 2005

  Contact Person:

  Edward Tung, Ph.D.

  Product Names:

  On Call Multi-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine

  Common Name:

  Immunochromatographic test for the qualitative detection of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine in urine.

  Regulation Name:

  Marijuana. Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine test system.

  Product Code:

  LDJ, DIO, DKZ, LAF, DJG, LCM

  Classification Number:

  21 CFR 862.3870, 21 CFR 862.3250, 21 CFR 862.3100, 21 CFR 862.3610, 21 CFR 862.3650

  Device Classification:

  The Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine test systems have been classified as Class Il devices with moderate complexity. The On CallTMMultiDrug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is similar to another FDA-cleared device (ACON One Step Multi-Drug Multi-Line Screen Test, K020313) for the qualitative detection of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine in urine specimens. This test is used to provide only a preliminary analytical result. All positive test results obtained with these devices must be confirmed by another test method, preferably GC/MS analysis.

  Statement of Intended Use Compared to Other Products:

  The On Call Multi-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is a rapid chromatographic immunoassay for the qualitative detection of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine in urine at a cutoff concentration of 50 ng/mL for Marijuana, 300 ng/mL for Cocaine, 1,000 ng/mL for Amphetamine, 1,000 ng/mL for Methamphetamine, 2,000 ng/mL for Opiates, and 25 ng/mL for Phencyclidine. This test is used to provide only a preliminary analytical result. All positive test results obtained with these devices must be confirmed by another test method, preferably GC/MS analysis. They are intended for the over-the-counter lay person use.

  Discussion of Technological Characteristics:

  The On Call' MMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is a competitive binding, lateral flow immunochromatographic assay for the qualitative screening of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine in a urine sample. The test is based on the principle of antigen-antibody immunochemistry. It utilizes the mouse monoclonal antibody to selectively detect elevated levels of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, Phencyclidine, and their metabolites in urine at a cutoff concentration of 50 ng/mL for Marijuana, 300 ng/mL for Cocaine, 1,000 ng/mL for Methamphetamine, 2,000 ng/mL for Opiates, and 25 ng/mL for Phencyclidine. This test can be performed without the use of an instrument.

  A drug-positive urine specimen will not generate a colored-line in the designated test region, while a negative urine specimen or a urine specimen containing Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, or Phencyclidine at the concentration below the cutoff level will generate a colored-line in the test region. To serve as a procedural control, a colored-line should always appear at the control region, indicating that proper volume of specimen has been added and membrane wicking has occurred.

  Safety and Effectiveness Data:

  Because the On CalliMMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is identical to the ACON One Step Multi-Drug Multi-Line Screen Test Card/Device that is legally marketed under K020313 for professional use, and because no special skills, training, education, or licensing is required to transfer a few drops of a urine sample into the test card well, there is no issue regarding the safety or effectiveness of the product to perform its intended function, i.e., to screen urine for the presence or absence of THC, COC, AMP, mAMP, OPI, PCP, and their metabolites. Because the labeling of the On CallTMMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is substantially equivalent to a variety of rapid screening tests currently in commercial distribution, including the First Check@ Home Drug Test and the Phamatech At HomeTMDrug Test, and there have been no reports of consumer inability to follow instructions or interpret results over the many months these products have been purchased, it should be concluded that the product can be used effectively by the lay user.

  Food and Drug Administration

  2098 Gaither Road

  Rockville MD 20850 MAR 1 1 2005

  Edward Tung, Ph.D.

  Regulatory Affairs

  ACON Laboratories, Inc. 4108 Sorrento Valley Blvd san Diego, CA 92121

  1<050050

  Trade/Device Name: On CallTMMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine,

  Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine

  Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.3100

  Regulation Name: Amphetamine test system

  Regulatory Class: Class Il

  Product Code: DKZ, DIO, LDJ, LCM, DIG, LAF

  Dated: January7, 2005

  Received: January 10, 2005

  Dear Dr. Tung:

  We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls provisions of the Act. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration, listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and adulteration.

  If your device is classified (sec above) into either class Il (Special Controls) or class Ill (PMA), it may be subject to such additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 800 to 895. In addition, FDA lilay publish further announcements conceming your device in the Federal Register.

  Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination docs not mean that FDA has Inade a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must coinply with all the Act's requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (2 1 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Parts 801 and 809); and good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 82()).

  Page 2

  This letter will allow you to begin marketing your device as described in your Section 510(k) premarket notification. The FDA finding of substantial equivalence of your device to a legally marketed predicate device results in a classification for your device and thus, permits your device to proceed to the market.

  If you desire specific infonnation about the application of labeling requirements to your device, or questions on the promotion and advertising of your device, please contact the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety at (240)276-0484. Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part 807.97). You may obtain other general information on your responsibilities under the Act from the Division of Small Manufacturers, International and Consumer Assistance at its toll-free number (800) 638-2041 or (301) 443-6597 or at its Internet address h!tp://www.fda.gov/cdrh/industry/support/index.html

  Sincerely yours,

  -Jean M. Cooper, MS, D.V.M.

  Director

  Division of Chemistry and Toxicology

  Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Evaluation and Safety

  Center for Devices and Radiological Health

  Enclosure

  13. INDICATIONS FOR USE

  510(k) Number (if known):

  Device Name: On CallTMMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine

  Indications for Use:

  The On CallTMMulti-Drug Home Test for Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine,

  Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine is a screening test for the rapid detection of Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamine, Methamphetamine, Opiates, and Phencyclidine in urine at a designated cut-off concentration of 50 ng/mL for Marijuana, 300 ng/mL for Cocaine, 1,000 ng/mL för Amphetamine, 1,000 ng/mL for Methamphetamine, 2,000 ng/mL for Opiates, and 25 ng/mL for Phencyclidine. The test is intended for over-the-counter (()TC) consumer use.

  This assay provides only a preliminary analytical test result. A more specific alternate chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) is the preferred confirmatory method. Clinical consideration and professional judgment should be applied to any drug of abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are indicated.

  Prescription Use AND/OR Over-The-Counter Use X

  (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D) (21 CFR 807 Subpart C)

  (PLEASE DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE-CONTINUE ON ANOTHER PAGE IF NEEDED)

  Concurrence of CDRH, Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices (OIVD)

  ivision

  Offlce of In Vitro Diagnostic Page 1 of 1

  Devlce Evaluation and Safety

  510(k)

  17
